FUNDING/GRNAT DOCUMENTARY PROJECT
Re: Grants to Individuals (me, as an independent videotape
producer-director)
HELP!
I have gotten _no_ where with my local library which is a Regional
Foundation Depository...the first problem, among many, is that I
am an individual and not a non-profit, I am told. 
I am looking for funding for a special videotape documentary
project.  At this late date it might be considered Emergency
Funding as I understand there is not time to go through typical
granting cycles.  
I have a strong background as a videotape producer-director,
director-cameraman with credits including several series of
videotape programs (documentaries, documentary/case-studies) for
top Fortune companies (industrials) and TV commercial work.  
I have several go-aheads and now I need funding, at this late date.  
MY CURRENT PROJECT
I want to go to India, in July, with a simple broadcast camera crew,
for three weeks to make a record of a special religious pilgrimage. 
The itinere and the access to each site is what makes this "shoot"
special _and_ since Americans and truly most Indians would not be
able to visit these venues (especially not with this access) because
they exist in a sort of religious underground.  This is a time to
acquire historical footage, truly possibly the last time (because of
government intervention in the running of Hindu temples and the
burgeoning influence of westernized "American" culturalization--
the dying out of spiritual life in lieu of material life).  
I am budgeting 100 hours of videotape (to take and shoot).  The
completed programs may (!) include play be for public television in
USA, UK, CANADA.  
All assistance will be GREATLY appreciated, especially:
     Telephone numbers of those organizations mandated to
fund this sort of cultural/multi-cultural endeavor
          UN
          WORLD BANK
          ???
HELP!   
PLEASE RESPOND TO ME AND not THIS LIST.
Thank you.  
                    Regards,
                    Greg Ozimek       Dearborn (Detroit) Michigan
                    ac161 at LEO.NMC.EDU (Internet)
