"From Rabindranath Tagore's book. At the lowest stratum of the Indian
caste system is the 'untouchable' or chandal. Within this caste, at one
time, were born Prakriti and her mother.  Prakriti was scorned by village
women and bewailed her birth until she met a Buddhist monk who offered her
a new point of view. There was hope, she thought, to change her karma, and
the struggle to do so and its outcome comprise the story." (Details from
_Asian Studies Newsletter_ (Spring 1990), p.5)


CHANT DES FOUS, LE
Distributor: Not known
French film on the Bauls of Bengal made in 1978-79.


CHITTIRAI FESTIVAL
(Michael Camerini and Myra Binford,1976, 25 + 35 min)
Distributor: South Asia Film Center, University of Wisconsin
H6: 45
Filmed by  directed by Joseph Elder. On the temple festival at Madurai,
South India. Part I : Historical background; Part II : Events of the
festival. William Harman's book _The Sacred Marriage of a Hindu Goddess_,
1989, which is a description of this festival, refers to what seems to be
the same film under the title WEDDING OF THE GODDESS. This is perhaps a
longer version, since Harman gives the timings as 36 + 40 min.


THE CHRISTIAN YOGA EXPERIENCE
(1985, 32 min)
Distributor: Deakin University Video Productions
"Dr Peter Fenner from Deakin University discusses the Christian Yoga
experience with Brother Amaldas, who accompanied the Monk-Mystic, Dom Bede
Griffiths, on his visit to Australia. Order No.129"


CIRCLES-CYCLES: KATHAK DANCE
(Robert S. Gottlieb, 1989)
Distributor: University of California Extension Media Center
"The kathak tradition combines influences from both Hindu and Islamic
cultures and was cultivated in the royal courts of north India under the
nawabs and Maharajas. The themes range from simple village life to the
experiences of Hindu deities." (Details from _Asian Studies Newsletter_
(Spring 1990), p.5)
".. provides a clear introduction to the history and performance of
kathak... with selections from the kathak repertoire as performed by
leading artists of North India... I recommend this film wholeheartedly for
teaching and research purposes" (AA review)
R-298 = AA 93,1 (1991), 252


CLASSROOM CONVERSATION WITH A ZOROASTRIAN PRIEST
(James W. Boyd and Ron G. Williams, 48 min.)
Distributor: Colorado State University Instructional Service
"Dastur Firoze Kotwal, a Zoroastrian high priest from Bombay, in residence
for a semester at Colorado State University, provided the interview
material for this discussion about beliefs and practices of Zoroastrians."
(details from _Asian Studies Newsletter_ (Jan-Feb 1994), p.7)


DARSHAN
(Filmed and edited by Florence Davey, 30 min)
Distributor: Satyam Shivam Sundaram
R-181 = AA 76,3 (1974), 704-6
"This useful film contains brief but illuminating vignettes of four
contemporary "holy men" of North India.." (AA review)


DEVI: THE FEMININE POWER IN INDIAN RELIGIOUS TRADITION
Distributor: Nataraj
"For centuries in India there has been an indigenous folk tradition of
goddess worship, especially in Eastern and Southern India. Mahadevi is
often presented as one who responds to the needs or cries of her devotees
to destroy evil. This film explores principal aspects of the goddess in
dramatized form." (details from _Asian Studies Newsletter_ (Spring 1990),
p.5)


DIVINE MADNESS: TRANCE, DANCE AND HEALING IN GUYANA
(Philip Singer, 1978, 60 min)
Distributor: Singer-Sharrette Productions
R-700 = AA 87,2 (1985), 480-1
"an intense and intimate look at a ritual healing sequence at a Kali Hindu
temple in Albion, Guyana. The participants, primarily East Indian sugar
plantation workers of the district... come as patients, healers, and
ritualists to a religious event that derives directly from the Shaivite
Great Tradition of South India. The film is a result of close cooperation
between the anthropologist/ ethnopsychiatrist Philip Singer and the Kali
Mai _pujari_ Jaimsee Naidoo. In their joint narrative the _pujari_'s
explanations of etiology and therapy in "Kali work" are presented side by
side with Singer's psychological framework for these processes." (excerpt
from generally favourable AA review)
This seems to be an abridged and improved version of a series of three 40
minute films by Philip Singer collectively entitled TRADITIONAL HEALING IN
GUYANA : THE DIVINE MADNESS OF KALI MAI FUNCTIONAL THERAPY
which were reviewed less positively in AA 81,2 (1979), 472-3. Criticisms there
focussed on the "rambling and inconsistent narration" with its
"condescending and patronizing tone" and on the failure to "make the
subject material generally comprehensible".


DOM BEDE GRIFFITHS: A CHRISTIAN SADHU
(1985, 33 min)
Distributor: Deakin University Video Productions
"Dom Bede Griffiths discusses East-West religious dialogue and his
experiences as a monk-mystic in the Benedictine Ashram in South India. He
talks with Professor Max Charlesworth and Dr Purusottama Bilimoria of
Deakin University. Order No.128."


DUST AND ASHES*
(Michael Yorke and Naresh Bedi, 1989, 50 min)
Distributor: Under the Sun
"Every twelve years, when the Sun enters Capricorn and Jupiter enters
Aries, devout Hindus go to the great Kumbh fair at Allahabad and this year
the government is expecting 37 million people. We follow the fortunes of
four pilgrims: an ascetic, who meditates in the ice cave from where the
Ganges flows; His Holiness Jagadguru Jayendra Saraswati Swamigal; a rural
peasant from central India and a wealthy industrialist." (Note from
programme of 2nd International Festival of Ethnographic Film,  Manchester,
1990)


EUNUCHS: INDIA'S THIRD GENDER*
(50 min.)
Distributor: BBC
AA 95 (1993), 517-8
On the _hijra_ (transvestite) community of India. "Well known to Indians
is the custom a groups of _hijras_ celebrating a birth in a prosperous
household by song and dance, and by blessing the newborn... Less well
known is the caste-like structure of the _hijra_ community and its
religious cult centering on a goddess who is pleased by the sacrifice
performed by an initiated _hijra_ of "her" male genitalia. Both the caste
and the cult are detailed by Nanda [Serena Nanda, _Neither Man nor Woman_,
Wadsworth 1990]... The film "centers on a cohabiting couple, Kiran and
Hiresh, a _hijra_ and her truck-driver mate.. We see two communities of
_hijras_, one in Rajasthan, where there is a monastery occupied by
_hijras_... The second community is a house of prostitution in Bombay. We
witness here the welcoming of two new "girls" into the house, celebrated
