castration. (From a joint review with EUNUCHS: INDIA'S THIRD GENDER. "Both
films are visually pleasing and nonsensational in tone.")


JVC ANTHOLOGY OF WORLD MUSIC AND DANCE*
Distributor: Rounder Records
This is a collection of thirty videocassettes, including five volumes (45-
55 min each) on South Asia. They include several items on religious
topics, listed below.

     11. SOUTH ASIA I (INDIA I)
     11-1 Bharata Natyam classical dance: devotional dance to Siva (8
     min)
     11-2 Kathakali: "Destruction of Duryodhana" from Mahabharata (10
     min)
     11-3 Manipuri dance: "Vasanta Ras" (Krishna and gopis) (12 min)
     11-4 Kathak dance: Rama and Sita in the forest from Ramayana (6
     min)

     12 SOUTH ASIA II (INDIA II)
     12-1 Chhau from Purulia: (a) "Killing of the demon Mahishasur";
     (b) "Death of Abhimanyu" from Mahabharata (19 min)
     12-2 Chhau from Seraikela: several short items (14 min)
     12-3 Yakshagana: "Death of Abhimanyu" from Mahabharata (14 min)
     12-4 Hindi devotional song (2 min)
     12-5 Sikh devotional song (3 min)

     13 SOUTH ASIA III (INDIA III)
     13-3 Epic of Pabuji (bhopa from Rajasthan) (2 min)
     13-7 to 9 Three Baul songs from Bengal (11 min)

     14 SOUTH ASIA IV (PAKISTAN AND BANGLADESH)
     14-1 and 2 two Qawwali items by Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan (31 min)
     14-7 Trance ritual from Hunza (4 min)

     15 SOUTH ASIA V (SRI LANKA, NEPAL, BHUTAN)
     15-1 Excerpts from a _tovil_ (Sinhala exorcistic ritual) (8 min)
     15-10 Hindu devotional song (dapa khala) from Nepal (3 min)
     15-12 Traditional Newar dance-drama (Mahakali Pyakhan) from
     Nepal (6 min)

See critical review of the South Asian items in the anthology by Amy
Catlin and Nazir Jairazbhoy in _Asian Music_ 24,2 (Spring/Summer 1993),
159-181. The quality of these performances is very variable, as is the
mode of presentation. Some are stage performances from Japan originating
in the Asian Traditional Performing Arts festivals (e.g. 13-7 to 9, 14-
1,2); others are heavily edited for TV films. In many cases much better
material is available elsewhere (e.g. IRAMUDUN for Sinhala exorcistic
ritual; Pakistani commercial videotapes for Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan). There
are nevertheless some useful items, and further documentation is available
in F. Koizumi et al. _Dance and Music in South Asian Drama_, Academia
Music, Tokyo 1983 and other publications from the Asian Traditional
Performing Arts festivals.


KATARAGAMA*
(Produced and directed by Charlie Nairn. Anthropologist, Gananath
Obeyesekere. around 55 min.)
Distributor: Disappearing World series
R-542 = _RAIN_ 3 (1974), 8-9; AA 82,2 (1980), 579-80
Cult of the Hindu deity of Kataragama (Skandha) in Sri Lanka. Scenes of
the annual temple festival, at which devotees make offerings, fire-walk
and in some cases hang suspended by skewers, are counterposed to the story
of a family who seek Kataragama's aid to find a lost child.


KHETURNI BAYA
(Sharon Wood, 1982, 19 min.)
Distributor: Pennsylvania State University, Audiovisual Services
R-793 = AA 86,1 (1984), 240-1
A film of women's life in a Gujarati village, including some ritual
sequences. "..although one would like a more informed commentary, the film
can provide useful visual exposure to north Indian family life,
particularly the life of women, for high school or introductory college
classes dealing for the first time with Indian society and culture. Its
somewhat stereotypic description can be rounded out by a teacher
knowledgeable about [the] society..." (from AA review)


LESSONS FROM GULAM
(Directed by John Baily, 53 min.)
Distributor: RAI (UK); Documentary Educational Resources (USA)
AA 91 (1989), 836-8
".. shows how South Asian Muslims living in a mill town in northern
England gather on Sundays to speak Urdu and perform traditional music
[_qawwali_ etc.] under the guidance of a teacher named Gulam..."


THE LIVING GODDESS*
(Frank Homans, 50 min.)
Distributor: Cinetel Productions, Sydney, Australia
Film about the Kumari cult in Nepal, made with the assistance of Michael
Allen of the Department of Anthropology, Sydney University, cf. his book
_The Cult of Kumari_.


THE LONG SEARCH
(BBC series, 1977, 13 episodes, each lasts 48 min)
Distributor: BBC
This series contains two South Asian episodes, "330 Million Gods" on
Hinduism in India and "The Footprints of the Buddha" on Theravada Buddhism
in Sri Lanka

     EPISODE 1: 330 MILLION GODS*
     "Visits various sites in India and observes the performance of
     several types of religious ceremonies. Explores the Hindu approach to
     God and the complexity of the Hindu religious experience." Ronald
     Eyre's presence throughout as the naive outsider may be obtrusive,
     but there is some nice video material, particularly the sequences in
     a Bihar village showing Saraswati Puja, the village sadhu, etc.

     EPISODE 3: FOOTPRINT OF THE BUDDHA*
     "Ronald Eyre tries to come to grips with a religion that has high
     moral standards, but does not believe in a god."


LOVING KRISHNA
(Produced and directed by Allen Moore and Akos Ostor, 1985, 40 min)
Distributor: Centre Productions
R-272 = AA 89,1 (1987), 259-62
Shot in Vishnupur, West Bengal. On the role of Krishna in the life of
Vishnupur. Its last half is devoted to an eight-day chariot festival
centred around Krishna. Akos Ostor's books _Play of the Gods_ (Chicago
1980) and _Culture and Power_ (Sage 1984) provide further background. The
AA's reviewer also recommends David Kinsley's _The Sword and the Flute_
"for students and instructors unfamiliar with Hinduism and Krishna
especially".


MAHARISHI MAHESH
(Conceived and narrated by Yavar Abbas, production manager Marion Abbas,
28 min.)
Distributor: Center for Mass Communication of Columbia University Press
AA 76 (1974) 707-9
Interviews the Maharishi at his Rishikesh centre. "Why are [all the
devotees] Westerners? Could the Maharishi possibly be catering to the
rich? The interviewer puts these and other hard questions to the
Maharishi, who offers evasive replies..." (AA review)


MANIFESTATIONS OF SHIVA
(Malcolm Leigh, 1980, 60 min)
Distributor: The Philadelphia Museum of Art and the Asia Society, Inc.,
725 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10021, USA
R-421 = AA 84,4 (1982), 988-9
"Filmed in SOuth India, [the film] shows varied forms of ritual attention
to the Hindu god Shiva, with a particular focus on the ways in which
Indian artistic expression is interwoven with Shiva worship. The film is
worth viewing for its technical perfection, the extraordinary close-up
shots of devotees' faces, and for all the splendid colours and sounds that
uniquely capture the sensuous beauty of Indian art and religious life...
suffers from the brevity of its narration... most viewers will be baffled
by what they see... The film might be of use in a graduate course of
anthropological methods, to vividly drive home the initial fieldwork
frustration of observing interesting (and obviously significant) behaviour
that one is not yet equipped to understand." (from AA review)


MITHILA PAINTERS: FIVE VILLAGE ARTISTS FROM MADHUBANI, INDIA
(Ray Owens, 48 min.)
Distributor: South Asia Film Center, University of Wisconsin
"The Mithila painters of Madhubani in north India have received a degree
of notoriety in recent years. These women painters, whose art at first
adorned walls, express themselves and their topics in a distinctive
traditional style. In the video, the artists themselves come to life."
(details from _Asian Studies Newsletter_ (Jan-Feb 1994), p.8)


MUNNI: CHILDHOOD AND ART IN MITHILA
(Produced by Joe Elder, directed by Raymond Owens, Ron Hess and Cheryl
Graff, 29 min.)
Distributor: South Asia Film Center, University of Wisconsin
AA 86 (1984) 807-8
Includes some life-cycle rituals (first tonsure and wedding).


THE MURIA*
(Melissa Llewellyn-Davies [?] and Chris Curling, 1982; 50 min)
(BBC Worlds Apart series)
Distributor: RAI (UK); Films Incorporated (USA)
R-436 = AA 88,1 (1986) 271-3
"The Muria of Central India live in a forested area encircled by
mountains. Their relative isolation has allowed them some differences from
the rest of India, in particular their lack of caste. The focus of this
film is on the institution of the _ghotul_, a dormitory within the village
where all people from about the age of twelve until their marriage must
stay. This film, like the other films of the BBC Worlds Apart series,
makes extensive use of interviews and subtitles, a technique which creates
a human and sympathetic portrayal of the Muria."
See critical review of the film in AA, focussing on its "very blatant and
ethnocentric message, that the Muria system is cruel and heartless and
causes psychological distress," on its "heavy-handed and ubiquitous"
narration, etc.


MURUGA
(Yvonne Hannemann)
Distributor:
R-319 = AA 76,1 (1974), 219


OUR ASIAN NEIGHBOURS series
See RANA; SWAMI SHYAM; THE VILLAGE


PILGRIMAGE TO PITTSBURGH
(30 min video)
Distributor: Fred W. Clothey, University of Pittsburgh, Department of Arts
and Sciences, 2604 Cathedral of Learning, Pittsburgh, PA 15260.
"This is a documentary prepared for American audiences of the Sahasrakalas
abhisekam festival as performed by participants in the Sri Venkatesvara
Temple of Pittsburgh. It attempts to present the South Indian immigrant
community's self-perception as expressed through the ritual sequence - a
festival never before performed in North America and only rarely in
India." (Details from _Asian Studies Newsletter_ (Spring 1990), p.6)


PLEASING GOD: A TRILOGY
See LOVING KRISHNA; SERPENT MOTHER; SONS OF SHIVA


PRINCIPLES OF CASTE
(Tom Selwyn, 24 min)
Distributor: RAI
"This film analyses the religious principles behind the caste system and
how these work in a Hindu marriage ceremony. Through an interview with an
untouchable and discussion with people working in various occupations, the
viewer comes to realize how much caste comes to shape every person's
life."


RAJ GONDS
(Chris Curling, Peter Loizos, Michael Yorke and Melissa Llewellyn-Davis
[?], 55 min)
(BBC Worlds Apart series [?])
Distributor: RAI (UK); Films Incorporated (USA)
R-436 = AA 88,1 (1986) 271-3
"The once powerful Raj, or ruling Gonds, have now been reduced to the
status of a tribe that needs the protection of the Indian government for
its survival. In defiance of their poverty and lack of power, the Raj
Gonds every year celebrate Dandari, a ritual of their former authority and
of their philosophy. The symbolism of Dandari is complex; riddles and
skits allow the Gonds to laugh at their fate while certain young men,
through their dress and actions, blur the distinctions between gods and
men, between men and nature. ... Anthropologist: Michael Yorke."


RANA
(Our Asian Neighbours series. 19 minutes)
Distributor: Film Australia
One of a series of films directed primarily at secondary schools. "The
story of a young Muslim girl student living in a crowded section of Old
Delhi. The customary veiling of women (Purdah) and impending marriage by
arrangement are examined."


THE SACRED COBRA*
BBC World About Us, 1982
Distributor: ?BBC
Indian village with cobra cult


SERPENT MOTHER
(Produced and directed by Allen Moore and Akos Ostor, 1985, 30 min.)
Distributor: Centre Productions
R-272 = AA 89,1 (1987), 259-62
Shot in Vishnupur, West Bengal. On the worship of the snake goddess,
Manasha, including the _jhapan_ festival in which serpent-handlers play
with cobras. Akos Ostor's books _Play of the Gods_ (Chicago 1980) and
_Culture and Power_ (Sage 1984) provide further background. The AA's
reviewer also recommends Edward Dimock's _The Thief of Love_ (Chicago
1963) which includes a partial translation of the Manasha Mangal.


SHAMANS OF THE BLIND COUNTRY*
(_SCHAMANEN IM BLINDEN LAND_)
(Michael Oppitz, 223 min.)
Distributor: Media Services, University of Texas Library
R-568 = AA 90,4 (1988), 1049-50
Michael Oppitz's 4 hr movie of Northern Magar shamans, Nepal
There is also a book of the film (in German).
"In the Himalayan region of West Nepal, the Magar peoples have preserved
their own distinctive version of the Classic Inner Asian tradition of
shamanism. The place of shamanism in Magar life is central, the mythology
is rich, the rituals are elaborate, and all of this has been exquisitely
documented in this colorful, moving film... both an original, informative
ethnography of Magar Shamanism and a landmark in ethnographic filming."
(AA review)


SONS OF SHIVA
Produced and directed by Robert Gardner and Akos Ostor, 1985, 28 min.)
Distributor: Centre Productions
R-272 = AA 89,1 (1987), 259-62
Shot in Vishnupur, West Bengal. "Portrays the annual three-day _gajan_
(calling) of the Lord Shiva, climaxing the many rituals of this deity
observed throughout the year... Trance dancing at critical moments of the
ritual is also shown, and several scenes give prominence to the
contributions of the Bauls, itinerant religious folk musicians famous in
Bengal." Akos Ostor's books _Play of the Gods_ (Chicago 1980) and _Culture
and Power_ (Sage 1984) provide further background; the AA's reviewer found
the account of the festival in _Play of the Gods_ pp.98-148 essential to
understand what was happening in the film.


SPIRITUAL SYMBOLISM IN INDIAN CLASSICAL DANCE
(1978, 36 min)
Distributor: Deakin University Video Publications
"An explanation and demonstration of the spiritual symbolism contained in
Indian classical dance forms. The dances are performed by Chandrabhanu,
and recorded at a Religious Experience Weekend School in 1978. Order
No.026."


SWAMI CHINMAYANANDA: SPIRITUAL ACTIVIST AND UNIVERSAL
TEACHER
(1984, 45 min)
Distributor: Deakin University Video Publications
"In 1984 Swami Chinmayananda, Spiritual Activist and Universal Teacher,
visited Australia. Professor Max Charlesworth, Dr Purusottama Bilimoria
and Dr Jocelyn Dunphy from Deakin University talk with the Swami who is
well respected in the East and West for his logical approach to religion.
Order No.140."


SWAMI KARUNANANDA
(Conceived and narrated by Yavar Abbas, production manager Marion Abbas,
28 min.)
Distributor: Center for Mass Communication of Columbia University Press
R-002 = AA 76,3 (1974), 707-9
Swami Karunananda is an Australian follower of Swami Shivananda; the film
follows him about his daily duties at Sivananda's Divine Life Socety in
Rishikesh. Also includes a brief discussion of Hatha Yoga "accompanied by
what can only be described as a remarkable virtuoso performance of a
number of asanas or postures... could be used by anyone lecturing on
religion in South Asia or religion in general" (AA review)


SWAMI SHYAM*
(Our Asian Neighbours series. 20 minutes)
Distributor: Film Australia
One of a series of films directed primarily at secondary schools.
"Involvs the audience directly in experiencing an Indian Swami. Set in the
Kulu Valley within the Himayas, the film ends with one of the Swami's
three minute lessons in meditation."


TIMELESS VILLAGE OF THE HIMALAYAS*
(34 min)
Distributor: BhakTV Productions Ltd
About the pilgrimage centre of Deoprayag in the Himalayas. Some nice
scenes of devotional music etc.


THE VILLAGE*
(Our Asian Neighbours series. c.20 minutes)
Distributor: Film Australia
One of a series of films directed primarily at secondary schools.
Made in the village in Beteille's study _Caste, Class and Power_. Some
scenes of domestic ritual (e.g. women drawing protective designs on the
ground in front of their houses). Commentary is fairly basic (designed for
secondary school audiences).


VISIONS AND SOUNDS: INDIAN CLASSICAL DANCE
 (25 min)
Distributor: Malinis's Dances of India Troupe
This film is second in a series of tapes designed to introduce classical
Indian dance to the novice, and to enrich understanding and participation
by an initiated audience. Divided into seven parts, the artist explains
and demonstrates traditional accompaniment hand gestures, foot patterns
etc. The video is accompanied by a study guide which includes a brief
foreword about the history of classical dance in India." (Details from
_Asian Studies Newsletter_ (Annual Meeting 1991))


THE WAGES OF ACTION: RELIGION IN A HINDU VILLAGE
(David Thompson, 1982, 29 min.)
Distributor: South Asia Film Center, University of Wisconsin
R-750 = AA 86,3 (1984), 807-9
A short film on popular Hinduism made in Soyepur village near Varanasi.
"...useful for initiating discussion in the classroom but it is too brief
and partial to cover any aspect of village Hinduism with the thoroughness
that a specialist would require." (AA review)


WEDDING OF THE GODDESS
See CHITTIRAI FESTIVAL


WEDDING SONG: HENNA ART AMONG PAKISTANI WOMEN IN NEW
YORK
(Susan Slyomovics and Amanda Dargan, ?1990)
Contact: Susan Slyomovics, Dept. of Performance Studies, NYU, 721
Broadway, New York, NY 10003, USA (212) 998 1620
AA 93,4 (1991), 1042-3
"The art of painting the hands and feet of an Indian or Pakistani bride
during a prenuptial ceremony called _mehendi_ continues to be practised
wherever Muslim communities form. The videotape profiles Shenaz Hooda, a
_mehendi_ artist who is also a cosmetics supervisor at a large drugstore
chain in Manhattan. Shenaz participates in the dance, music, and orally
improvised songs that characteristically mock the groom, the in-laws, and
the wedding ritual." (AAA Annual Meeting abstracts)
The review suggests that the film lacks clarity and needs introduction and
interpretation for student use.


THE WISDOM OF A PROPHET
(136 min.)
Distribution (in Australia): Society of St Francis
"Part One: 'A New Vision of Reality in the Light of Modern Science'; Part
Two: 'A New Vision of Reality in the Light of Christian Mysticism and
Hindu Advaita." Both parts recorded during Fr Bede Griffith's visit to
Perth, Australia in 1992."


YATRA
(Filmed and edited by Florence Davey, 15 min.)
Distributor: Satyam Shivam Sundaram
R-180 = AA 76,3 (1974), 703-4
On the Ardha Kumbh Mela, Allahabad, 1971
See dismissive AA review: "almost totally useless as a learning
resource... should be withdrawn by its distributor..."


A ZOROASTRIAN RITUAL: THE AFRINAGAN
(James W. Boyd and Ron G. Williams, 17 min.)
Distributor: Colorado State University Instructional Service
"This was filmed in Bombay and depicts one of the most commonly repeated
public ceremonies of the Zoroastrian community. It is a beautiful service
of 'blessings,' involving offerings of flowers, fruit, wine and milk."
(details from _Asian Studies Newsletter_ (Jan-Feb 1994), p.9)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
end of file

 





