None
       "Aryans and Dravidians" (Sep  7,  3:15)
X-Mailer: Mail User's Shell (7.2.5 10/14/92)
Re: Aryans and Dravidians
Content-Type: text
Content-Length: 10681
/ FROM:  BAPAT JB <sci.monash.edu.au!Jayant.B.BAPAT at ucsd.UUCP>, Sep 7  3:15 1994
| ABOUT: Aryans and Dravidians
|
| In connection with my work on Hindu Temple Priests, I am looking for 
| material on the question of the Aryan invasion, feuds between Aryans 
| and Dravidians, the north being Aryan and the south Dravidian etc,etc.
| The main reason for this is that in my interviews with Brahmin priests
| in Maharashtra, I heard again and again that" Shiva being a non Aryan
| deity, we Aryan Brahmins do not worship him with the same devotion".
| There is thus still a perception amongst northern Brahmins that they 
| are Aryans.
| While I appreciate that the Aryan invasion theory is now discredited,
| I have not been able to find good review material which critically 
| discusses these issues.
| Could someone please help me locate such material.
|---------------------------------------------------------------------- Jayant Bapat 
| 
	Dr. Bapat:
	This is not a direct answer to your question, but, indirect.
	I read an article about an importer of Indian Books, and in
	the interview, he mentioned the topic of the Aryan invasion.
	It is possible he can help you.
	I hesitate to attach the entire article .. as it is a bit long
	.. but I guess I will take my chances on the flames and go
	ahead, as other researchers may find the source (book
	importer) to be of interest too.
	Namaskars,
	Sadhunathan Nadesan
| 
| 
|---------------------------------------------------------------------- Jayant Bap----------------------------------------------------------------------
may_94/South_Asian_Books (complete) ascii
X-Server: Squirrel Mail Server Software V3.01B [dorequest 3.28]
Request: may_94/South_Asian_Books
	Index: South Asia Books
	Head: Professor Barrier Ships 3 Tons of Indian Books To US Every
	Month
	Subhead:
	Text:
	In early February, 1994, New Delhi hosted the largest book fair
	ever held in India.  Here, the first award for promotion of
	Indian books abroad was given to Prof.  N.G.  Barrier in
	recognition of his over 25 years of bringing Indian publications
	to America and thus improving the understanding between Indians
	and Americans.  The following article on Prof.  Barrier and his
	company, South Asia Books, appeared in the Sunday Times of
	India.
	By Saibal Chatterjee
	When Yahya Khan imposed martial law in Pakistan in the spring of
	1969, among the people who were caught unawares was a young
	American bibliophile.  Trapped in Ferozesons Book Store on the
	Mall in Lahore for several hours, he stumbled upon an assortment
	of eminently readable Pakistani books, including many tomes on
	Punjab published by the provincial government.  By the end of
	it, he had found his true calling.
	"The books were dirt cheap-three to four rupees each.  I packed
	up two trunks although I knew it would be extremely difficult to
	get the books out of Pakistan.  But luck favoured me.  Barely 20
	minutes before the frontier closed, I managed to slip out of the
	country, reached India and shipped the books to the US to be
	sold or circulated among friends and libraries," the tall,
	sprightly, ponytailed, 54-year-old Professor N.  Gerald Barrier
	recounts, flashing back to the dramatic circumstances in which
	his career and his company, South Asia Books, were launched.
	Books have been his business ever since, but Barrier, winner of
	the first National Book Trust award for the promotion of Indian
	publications abroad, has never lived life strictly by the book.
	The calculated risks he has taken in the last quarter of a
	century to unveil the works of Indian writers and academicians
	for American readers have been well worth it.  Not only have
	they given him a great sense of satisfaction, they have also
	fetched him tidy profits in the bargain.
	Today, South Asia Books is far and away the largest American
	distributor of Indian books.  Barrier's warehouse in Columbia,
	Missouri, USA, has 6,000 square feet of covered space, over
	4,500 titles in active stock and the equivalent of a 3-4 person
	staff.  "We have more books about the subcontinent than you can
	find in any single Indian bookstore," he says with obvious
	pride.  "The level of penetration of Indian books in the US is
	quite high.  Apart from those who buy books directly from
	publishers and distributors, there are over 20 libraries which
	receive almost every Indian publication through the Library of
	Congress.  Besides, more than 500 institutions in the US have
	courses dealing with Indian studies."
	Barrier, who received his doctoral degree from Duke University
	in 1966 and has been teaching at the University of Missouri for
	25 years, is convinced that the fears of India being culturally
	swamped by America are unfounded.  "It is a two-way cultural
	interaction," asserts the scholar-bookseller-publisher who has
	written or edited eight books and is an authority on Sikh
	history and Punjab.  "The New Age movement in the US is greatly
	influenced by Indian traditions-Gandhian thought,
	vegetarianism, ayurveda, yoga and astrology.  Nearly 4,000
	titles have been published in the US on yoga alone.  Most major
	Indian writers come out in American editions.  In fact, they
	are often first published in the US," he points out.
	India will, therefore, always continue to exercise a deep
	influence on the lives of Americans, he feels.  "The other
	important source of contact is the large Indian population in
	the US," he says.  "Their culture is spreading.  There are
	probably more Americans than Indians learning classical Indian
	dance forms in the US today." Barrier himself speaks Hindi and
	can read Gurmukhi, but he confesses that "my Hindi has become a
	bit rusty and I cannot speak or understand Punjabi." When asked
	about his personal religious beliefs, he confided, "I have my
	roots in the Christian tradition and almost was a minister, but
	I became disenchanted with the internal politics and
	institutional problems.  I am rather a humanist at this point,
	but I believe firmly in life after death and some type of
	transmigration"
	Barrier's passion for things Indian dates back to the Hindi
	language fellowship he had at Duke University for four years.
	His latest visit to India, essentially to pick up titles at the
	11th World Book Fair, is his sixth trip to the subcontinent.
	Thanks to his avuncular comportment and his laid-back air, he
	could, if you didn't know him, be mistaken for a Bohemian
	backpacker hopelessly in love with the wonder that is India.
	A lot of publishing is going on in the US but people are
	probably reading much less.  And that is causing Barrier a great
	deal of consternation.  "We've become a visual society.  Reading
	is perceived almost as a punishment.  There is television,
	computers and, now, virtual reality," he observes.  "Maybe we
	are going back to an oral tradition, which is primarily an
	Indian concept."
	Barrier doesn't see himself as much of a businessman and prefers
	to leave the market analysis and selling to his staff.  But he
	knows Indian books like the back of his hand.  "I can
	instinctively pick up a book that will sell," he says.  His
	25-year track record as a cross-cultural connoisseur
	substantiates his claim like nothing else can.
	Address: South Asia Books, P.O.  Box 502, Columbia, Missouri
	65205, USA.
	Sidebar: Barrier's Bridge to Bharat
	Text:
	Over the years, Hinduism Today has received testimony of how
	easy it is to buy books from India (once unheard-of humbug)
	through South Asia Books.  In a flurry of faxes we asked
	Professor Barrier to tell us more about himself and his company.
	Below are his words.
	The Mission of South Asia Books
	South Asia Books provides an accessible supply of books and
	information on publications from India.  I serve as a broker for
	manuscripts, help Indian and American dealers and increasingly
	sell textbooks into many courses-especially those relating to
	history and religion.  My other goal is to develop a mass
	market.  I do this by warehousing books delivered by large
	sea-cargos (5,000 pounds every four weeks) and then keeping the
	prices down.  I try to price so that with discounts I get within
	a reasonable range of the Rupee price.
	I spend about 20-25 hours a week in my academic profession.  I
	teach Modern Indian history-including courses on Asian and
	Indian civilization, Gandhi, Nonviolence in Modern World
	History, and modern religion and political movements in
	India-head important committees, write and publish.  I have
	written 7 books and numerous articles.  The other 35 hours a
	week goes into the book business.
	Views of a Veda Vendor
	In my opinion, books on Hinduism in the US are often too
	academic.  Those from India often have poor quality production
	and do not answer some of the questions asked by lay people.
	There is actually a small market here among Indians, who often
	do not buy either scholarly or popular books.  My experience
	suggests that far more Americans buy books on Hinduism than
	Indians.
	The Aryan invasion theories are being totally reworked, whether
	by textual analysis or good solid archaeology.  These works
	suggest modifications are taking place of earlier ideas either
	dominated by Westerners or nationalist historians who played up
	some myths about Aryans.  We are now getting to the real story.
	------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright 1994, Himalayan Academy, All Rights Reserved. The information
contained in this news report may not be published for commercial
purposes without the prior written authority of Himalayan Academy.
(The publisher's request is that the material not be used in magazines
or newspapers that are for sale without their permission.
Redistribution electronically (for free), photocoping to give to
classes or friends, all that is ok.)  This copyright notice may NOT be
removed, or the articles edited or changed without the prior written
authority of Himalayan Academy.
Send letters to the editor to hinduism at mcimail.com 
[for compuserve, use 73310,1001]
For a free three-month trial subscription to Hinduism Today (USA only)
send postal address to hinduism at mcimail.com, or write P.O. Box 157,
Hanamaulu, Hawaii, 96746.  Hinduism  Today is published monthly is
seven editions: North America, UK/Europe, Malaysia/ASEAN, Africa,
Indian Ocean, India and a Dutch Language Digest. For information on
subscribing outside the USA, request file "HELP".
