Virashaivas
I am currently looking at the Virashaivas in Karnataka and would dearly
like to know of anyone discussing the term "Protestant" in this context
or in any related context. The term is used by Weber, and discussed more
critically by Blake Michael in his book THE ORIGINS OF VIRASHAIVA SECTS.
I am particularly interested in the changes that took place, and evidence
for those changes, in the centuries after Basavanna.
Any help would be most appreciated.
Julia
Dr I. Julia Leslie, Sen. Lect. SOAS, London.
email: jleslie at vigyan.iisc.ernet.in (until May 1995).
 NB: Don't just hit "R"eturn to answer email from me.  There is a glitch
 in my outgoing email headers.  Type in the above address (or alias it),
 or use my UK address <j.leslie at ucl.ac.uk>.
Phone/FAX: +91-80-6633884 (phone before faxing)
Currently on sabbatical leave in Bangalore.
Original-Received:  from ellis.uchicago.edu by 
                   midway.uchicago.edu for indology at liverpool.ac.uk Mon, 3 Oct 
                   94 15:32:46 CDT
PP-warning: Illegal Received field on preceding line
Re: statistical data
  One reliable (if not absolutely comprehensive) source of latitude
and longitude information for the South Asian subcontinent is the
Gazetteer series by the United States Board on Geographic Names.
These have the appearance of a listing printed by computer, but I have
not been able to find information on availability of the machine-
readable files.  The publisher in Washington has varied over time,
including:  United States Department of the Interior, Division of
Geography and the United States Defense Mapping Agency, Topographic
Center.  Titles and dates of the most recent editions are:
  India : official standard names approved by the United States Board
     on Geographic Names.  1952.  [Contains separate sections on
     Bhutan, Nepal, French India, Portuguese India, Jammu and Kashmir,
     and India.]
  Gazetteer of Sri Lanka : names approved by the United States Board
     on Geographic Names.  3rd ed.  1993.
  Gazetteer of Pakistan : names approved by the United States Board on
     Geographic Names.  3rd ed.  1983.
  Bangladesh : official standard names.  1976.
....
