South Asian Folklore
			TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN
	I am compiling an international directory of scholars who are 
involved in the field of South Asian Folklore (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, 
Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka). I have enclosed below the 
information and submssion form, which you can send back to me by email 
(email address: <hpbhatta at email.unc.edu>. Please feel free to fill out the 
form on behalf of your friends or pass it on to the interested persons.
	Your cooperation in this regard would be a great help.
	Sincerely,
	Harihar P. Bhattarai
	Reader, Nepal and Asian Studies
	Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, NEPAL
	At present: Department of Anthropology
		    The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
		    Chapel Hill, NC 27514
		    (919) 914-6948
1. Name
2. Education
3. Institutional Affiliation
4. Mailing Address
5. Phone No.
   Fax No.
6. Full Email Address
7. Description of Your Work (Research/Teaching Interests and 
   Experiences, Geographical Regions, Languages, Religions, etc.)    	
Original-Received:  from ellis.uchicago.edu by 
                   midway.uchicago.edu for indology at liverpool.ac.uk Mon, 19 
                   Dec 94 11:39:48 CST
PP-warning: Illegal Received field on preceding line
          for indology at liverpool.ac.uk; Mon, 19 Dec 1994 11:39:29 -0600
Indological series on microfilm
  On Saturday and Sunday Jonathan Silk and Lars Martin Fosse inquired
about titles on microfilm at Harvard.  In both cases the titles are in
Indological series microfilmed under a joint project at the University
of Chicago and Harvard University funded by the National Endowment for
the Humanities.
  Information on obtaining copies of microfilm prepared under that
project and under another project between Chicago and the British
Library is available on the South Asia Gopher.  By selecting the
options for "Bibliographic Information on South Asia" and "Catalog
of Indological Series Available on Microfilm" it is possible to
find the required details for ordering copies of film.  The file
also contains the titles of series filmed and the library or libraries
holding microfilm negatives for reproduction.
  A short-title catalog of works preserved under the two projects will
be available before the middle of 1995, I hope, on a World Wide Web
server being installed here.
James Nye
