Sanskrit vocabulary : book review - "Language of the Gods"
Most people intrerested in the subject of Indian studies have found
themselves confronted very early with the problem of Sanskrit vocabulary.  
Specially, as I presume is largely the case on this forum, when one is 
approaching the subject through the English language, the liberal peppering 
of Sanskrit terms (as often in works of any significance) is usually a 
source of much bewilderment.  It may
take one some time to realize that like the Eskimo with his 99 different 
words for snow, the early users of the Sanskrit language 
developed a highly specialized vocabulary to describe the "inner life"
of man - a granularity to which the English language is entirely inadequate. 
 However, being a constantly evolving and highly adaptable
language, English assimilates quickly into itself from foreign cultures and 
Indian ideas and terms are becoming native to its universe of expression.  
It is for this reason that it becomes all the more necessary to have a 
correct understanding of significant Sanskrit vocabulary.  
Inaccuracy of understanding and usage apart, the more complex problem 
presented by Sanskrit vocabulary, even to the person familiar with the 
language, arises from historical and philosophical variations of usage.  For 
instance, the word Maya means something quite different to the Buddhist, the 
Advaitin, the Vaishnav and the Tantrik; Shiva takes on different names and 
varying functions through the Vedas, the Upanishads, the Puranas, the 
Tantras and the Shaiva Agamas.  A clear understanding of context is 
absolutely necessary to the correct interpretation of text. 
Fortunately, there is an excellent and comprehensive aid to introduce the 
gamut of important Sanskrit terms, presenting them against the backdrop of 
the historical, social, cultural, and philosophic atmosphere of their usage. 
 This is the book, "The Language of the Gods", written by Dr. Judith M. 
Tyberg and published by the East-West Cultural Center in Los Angeles.  
Judith (now deceased) was a direct disciple of Sri Aurobindo, who gave her 
the spiritual name Jyotipriya, and her book is definitely informed by the 
spiritual clarity and all-inclusive comprehensiveness that characterises her 
master.
Starting with an introduction to the mantric power of Sanskrit, this book 
takes us through the message and terms of the Vedas, the Upanishads and the 
Bhagavad Gita,  the Philosophical Schools, their exponents and Literature, 
the Systems of Yoga, an outline of Sanatana Dharma, the different Indian 
religions, their practices and essential terms and Buddhism with Buddhist 
terms in Sanskrit and Pali.  A number of indexes at the end of the book 
enlarge upon the material of the text, adding extensive terminology with 
meaningful interpretations.
This book is a must for all interested in Indian studies, both for the sheer 
pleasure of its reading, and as an invaluable handbook for Sanskrit 
vocabulary.  Handsomely hardbound in a light blue jacket, the book costs 
$16/- plus postage and may be obtained by writing to the East-West Cultural 
Center, 12329 Marshall Street, Culver City, CA 90230 or calling (310) 
390-9083  or you may send e-mail to Debashish Banerji at 
hal_computer at earthlink.net
