From Gerard.Huet at INRIA.FR  Wed Apr 11 14:12:52 2007
From: Gerard.Huet at INRIA.FR (=?utf-8?Q?G=C3=A9rard_Huet?=)
Date: Wed, 11 Apr 07 16:12:52 +0200
Subject: Sanskrit Computational Linguistics Symposium - 1st call for              participation
Message-ID: <161227079941.23782.8110234383310867215.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Apologies for duplicate mailings.

Announcement.

The First International Symposium on Sanskrit Computational  
Linguistics will take place in the Paris area on
the 29th and 30th of October 2007, followed on the 31st by a workshop  
on standardization issues related to Sanskrit
linguistic resources. Papers are sollicited in the following topics:

- Representation of morpho-phonetics; encoding of phonological  
features and prosody; sandhi application and analysis;
morphological paradigms and parameters for classical Sanskrit (both  
derivational and inflectional).
- Representation of a Sanskrit Generative Lexicon; Sanskrit Wordnet;  
Sanskrit to pivot semantic formats.
- Sense disambiguation, treatment of ontological structure, proper  
nouns recognition in Sanskrit.
- Tagging and shallow syntax; dependency grammars for Sanskrit,  
kAraka representation and processing.
- Representation of Sanskrit syntax; treebank formats for Sanskrit;  
Sanskrit parsing.
- Standardization, interoperability issues; evaluation of linguistic  
tasks such as tagging, stemming, parsing.
- Corpus tagging at various levels of granularity. Indexing and  
anchoring of citations. Prosody representation.
- Multi-layer corpus architecture for philology applications  
(manuscript variants, critical editions, commentary structure)
- Computerization of Paninean descriptions, representation of  
suutras, vaarttikas, ga.napaa.thas, dhaatupaa.thas.

Please note that issues concerning fonts rendering and encoding,  
speech recognition and synthesis, optical character
recognition are out of scope.

Program Committee

   Pr Pushpak Bhattacharyya, Computer Science and Engineering  
Department, IIT Mumbai (Maharashtra)
   Pr Brendan S. Gillon, Department of Linguistics, McGill  
University, Montreal (Quebec)
   Pr Jan Houben, Directeur d'Etudes, Ecole Pratique des Hautes  
Etudes, Paris (France)
   Dr G?rard Huet, INRIA Rocquencourt (France) (co-chair)
   Dr Girish Nath Jha, Assistant Professor, Special Centre for  
Sanskrit Studies, J.N.U. New Delhi
   Pr Amba Kulkarni Head, Department of Sanskrit Studies, University  
of Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) (co-chair)
   Pr Malhar Kulkarni, Dept. of Humanities & Social Sciences, IIT  
Mumbai (Maharashtra)
   Pr Alain Lecomte, UFR Sciences du langage, Universit? Paris 8,  
Saint-Denis (France)
   Pr Narayana Murthy Kavi, Computer Science Dept, University of  
Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh)
   Pr Georges-Jean Pinault, Directeur d'Etudes, Ecole Pratique des  
Hautes Etudes, Paris (France)
   Pr K. V. Ramkrishnamacharyulu Vice Chancellor, Sanskrit  
University, Jaipur (Rajasthan)
   Dr Peter M. Scharf, Department of Classics, Brown University,  
Providence, RI (USA)
   Dr Shivamurthy Swamiji, Sri Taralabalu Jagadguru Brihanmath,  
Sirigere (Karnataka)
   Pr Muneo Tokunaga, Graduate School of Letters, Kyoto University,  
Kyoto (Japan)
   Dr Lalit Kumar Tripathi, Reader, Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan,  
Allahabad (Uttar Pradesh)
   Dr Srinivasa Varakhedi, Lecturer, NLP Department, Rashtriya  
Sanskrit Vidyapeetha, Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh)

Local Organisation
   Chantal Girodon, INRIA-Rocquencourt [Chantal.GIRODON at inria.fr]

Important dates
June 15th 2007 deadline for submission
August 31st acceptance notice
September 30th final version due
October 29th to 31st Symposium+Workshop

Preparation of manuscript communications to the Symposium:

Manuscript are requested in pdf format (unusual fonts should be  
included) sent as attachments to emails
to both chairs (Gerard.Huet at inria.fr and ambapradeep at gmail.com). ACL  
style is recommended.
The accepted papers will be edited in informal proceedings available  
at the time of the Symposium and
in a free electronic archive.
The papers should be less than 20 pages long, written in English, in  
the style of computational linguistics
academic communications, and correspond to 1/2h oral communications.  
Shorter papers will also be considered
for progress report sessions as well as demonstrations of software  
prototypes.

The Workshop will have as main focus standardization issues  
concerning the inter-operability of the various
tools available for the computer processing of Sanskrit texts. It is  
organized by the joint team on
Sanskrit Computational Linguistics recently created between INRIA,  
University of Hyderabad and Rashtriya Sanskrit
Vidyapeetha, Tirupati. Participants to the Symposium are welcome to  
attend and participate to the Workshop sessions.
More information on the Workshop will be posted to the Sanskrit Forum  
of the Zen Bulletin Board
(http://sanskrit.inria.fr/zf/).




