Buddhist studies discussion group
NEW DISCUSSION GROUP FOR SCHOLARS OF BUDDHISM
An electronic discussion group called BUDDHA-L has recently been
formed towards the end of providing a means for those interested
in Buddhist Studies to exchange information and views. It is hoped
that the group will function as an open forum for scholarly
discussion of topics relating to the history, literature and
languages, fine arts, philosophy, and institutions of all forms of
Buddhism. It may also serve as a forum for discussion of issues
connected to the teaching of Buddhist studies at the university
level, and as a palce for posting notices of employment
opportunities.
The primary purpose of this list is to provide a forum for serious
academic discussion. It is open to all persons inside and outside
the academic context who wish to engage in substantial discussion
of topics relating to Buddhism and Buddhist studies. BUDDHA-L is
not to be used for proselytizing for or against Buddhism in
general, any particular form of Buddhism, or any other religion or
philosophy, nor is it to be used as a forum for making
unsubstantiable confessions of personal conviction.
The discussion on the list is to be moderated, not in order to
suppress or censor controversies on any topic, but rather to limit
irrelevant discussions and idle chatter, and to redirect or return
messages sent to the list by accident. Content or style will never
be altered by the moderator, whose only responsibility will be to
forward all appropriate postings to the list.
If you wish to subscribe to BUDDHA-L, send an appropriate message
to LISTSERV at ULKYVM.
If you are connected to BITNET, the simplest way to send a message
to LISTSERV is interactively, that is, by issuing commands from
your system's command line. If you are on a VM/CMS system, you
begin an interactive command to LISTSERV at ULKYVM with the string:
     TELL LISTSERV AT ULKYVM SUBSCRIBE BUDDHA-L <your name>
On a VAX/VMS system, the subscription command is worded:
     SEND LISTSERV at ULKYVM "SUBSCRIBE BUDDHA-L <your name>"
The second way to communicate with LISTSERV at ULKYVM is to send an
e-mail message. The message should contain only the following
command:
      SUBSCRIBE BUDDHA-L <name>
Richard Hayes <cxev at musica.mcgill.ca>
Faculty of Religious Studies, McGill University
James A. Cocks <jacock01 at ulkyvm>
Senior Consultant Research/Instruction
University of Louisville
