From wujastyk at gmail.com  Mon Jan 20 11:17:06 2014
From: wujastyk at gmail.com (Dominik Wujastyk)
Date: Mon, 20 Jan 14 12:17:06 +0100
Subject: [INDOLOGY] New Catalogus Catalogorum - new volumes
Message-ID: <CAKdt-CfeitzYfdg2VR-bYjnKxwwHsys+d2jCocqS=n3EcKt5Vg@mail.gmail.com>

I
?'m thrilled to have received in today's post my order for the latest seven
volumes of the NCC (Madras, 2013).  The indefatigable team at the U. of
Madras, especially the editors Prof. Dr S. Revathty, Prof. Dr S.
Padmanabhan, Assist. Prof. Dr P. Narasimhan, and Assist. Prof. Dr C.
Murugan, under the dynamic directorship of Prof. Dr Siniruddha Dash, have
now published volumes 26-32, covering Lak?ra-?a?kar?c?ryotpatti.  Volume 28
includes an updated bibliography of the catalogues extracted for the NCC
and abbreviations for the wide range of secondary sources cited.

I consider the NCC to be amongst the most important projects of indology in
the 20th and 21st centuries (so far), up there with the BORI Mahabharata
and the Deccan College Dictionary.  It is what might be called a Big
Humanities project (like CERN is a big science project).  International
scholarship owes a great deal to Prof. Dash and his team, Prof. Dr R.
Thandavan (VC of the U. of Madras, who strongly supports the project), the
IGNCA, NAMAMI and the UGC.  Prof. Dash in particular has managed to
reinvigorate a project that had languished in the 1990s, and was in danger
of collapsing altogether.

And now the end is in sight, at least for the printed product.  Supporters
of the project are exciting about the future plans at Madras after the
printed volumes are completed.  Revisions, suppletions, digital spin-offs,
and other products from this astounding database of Indian scholars and
literary history can be expected to open new vistas for 21st century
scholarship on Indian culture.

Best,
Dominik Wujastyk


[image: Inline images 1]


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20140120/2e362d11/attachment.htm>

