in Tamil (R. Varadadesikan) -- From Ancient Poetics to
Applied Poetics: Continuance and Change in Tamil Bhakti Poetry (With 
special reference to Namm??v?r?sakam poems) (G. Vijayavenugopal) - 
Namm??v?r as a Master of ti?aimayakkam?Transposition Techniques in the 
akam Songs of the Tiruv?ymo?i (Eva Wilden) --?r?vai??ava Topoi: 
Constructing a South Indian Sect through Place (Katherine Young)?


Starting around the sixth century of the common era, a new form of 
fervent religiosity seems to be
discernible in the Tamil-speaking South that is often termed the ?Bhakti 
movement?. The eleven essays
gathered in this volume all deal with South Indian primary sources 
related to the various phenomena
that can be grouped together under the head of ?Bhakti?, which may be 
broadly defined as personal
devotion between a devotee and his god. What characterised the early 
phase of this ?movement?, which
in subsequent centuries swept across the whole sub-continent and 
transformed popular religion in
every place that it reached, was the emphasis placed upon the emotional 
aspect of the relation between
the devotee and his chosen deity: the Tamil hymns regularly underline 
the message that salvation can
be attained just through such devotion.

The chronology of the appearance, growth and development of this 
transformative movement is riddled
with uncertainties, whether we consider literary or archaeological 
evidence. Each of the contributions to
this volume addresses some aspect of the history of this movement in the 
South, and so, drawing on a
wide range of disciplines ? linguistics, philology, epigraphy, 
archaeology ? they together contribute,
each in its own way, to the mapping of the chronology of Bhakti. This 
volume is dedicated to our
esteemed colleague Pa??it R. Varadadesikan, a specialist of the Tamil 
sources of Vai??avism, who recently retired after dedicating
forty-four years of his life to a career in the Pondicherry Centre of 
the EFEO working to further understanding of Tamil and
Ma?iprav??am literature.

Best wishes

-- Jean-Luc Chevillard

-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: Flyer-CI124-withtableofcontents.pdf
Type: application/pdf
Size: 193803 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20140613/a552fbfc/attachment.pdf>

