From raffaele.torella at uniroma1.it  Thu Jul 10 09:45:44 2014
From: raffaele.torella at uniroma1.it (Raffaele Torella)
Date: Thu, 10 Jul 14 11:45:44 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Alchemy metaphor
In-Reply-To: <CAM3HWN-8SA4NGYzVmuXqyybLM6aKc_BgNEJdAEvBkDKDwvhqGw@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <EB0A8F8E-BB56-40F7-B182-9613205D80D6@uniroma1.it>


Il giorno 08/lug/2014, alle ore 18:48, Christopher Wallis <bhairava11 at gmail.com> ha scritto:

> Dear Dr Aklujkar,
> 
> Cognisant as I am of your expertise, I must respectfully disagree. In the context of the Pratyabhij?? philosophy being expounded by Abhinavagupta here, the idea is that the body mind etc., which are clearly objects of awareness, lose their separate objectivity in this tury? state, becoming expressions of awareness itself (tad? bodha-svar?p?k?ta? tad-ras?nuviddham eva ??ny?di-deh?ntam avabh?ti, further on in the passage), not separate from it. So this is not the tury? of other schools (= sam?dhi), because a complete withdrawal from the objects of cognition is here called tury?t?ta. In the tury? state under discussion, it is specifically the objectivity of the objects of consciousness that falls away, not their appearance within consciousness -- but he specifies that the impressions (sa.msk?ra) of objectivity remain.
> 
> With regard to your second point, the Rasa-ratna-samuccaya (5.11) citation (thank you for that!) I think shows that vedha can indeed mean transmute; so what we have in the Abhinavagupta passage is three stages in the process (in which the agent is ahambh?va or sv?tantryar?pa-bodha). The first is denoted by vidh-,  permeate, infuse, but also transmute; the second, abhini+vi?, immerse completely (now deh?di have become like gold); the third, j?r?a, in which all trace of objectivity (the sa.msk?ras referred to above) are "worn away" or the gold is "digested" by the mercury in the metaphor. (This is now tury?t?ta-da??). Thus the mercury preparation (siddha-rasa) changes the base metal to gold, then with prolonged exposure eats away that pure gold itself, since Abhinava wants no trace of objectivity left in this process. A nice (if surprising) metaphor, since the idea of pure gold triggers our r?ga, and therefore must be dissolved, leaving only the dynamism of consciousness itself.
> 
> Torella (1994) supports my reading in his summary paraphrase of this passage: 
> "The objective realities with which the I had identified himself are themselves transformed on contact with the I . . . so that they continue to subsist, but as though they have ceased to be objects; they are compared to copper which on contact with mercury is transformed into gold. The state beyond the fourth state, in which . . . the differentiation is now completely dissolved, the idant? dispelled; remaining within the terms of the simile suggested by Abh., even the gold into which the various levels of subjectivity have been transformed - from the body to the void - as it is increasingly permeated by the mercury wears away and finally dissolves, these realities only surviving in the residual form of samsk?ra."  but later he seemingly changed his understanding of the passage, writing "This experience, which corresponds to the
> fourth state, can be extended further, until it flows into the state beyond the fourth, where the components of limitation, including sa.msk?ra, are totally dissolved and incorporated in the I."
> 
> This last confusion hinges on the interpretation of the phrase sa drutarasa iva ?bh?ti kevala? tat-sa?sk?ra?.
> I am taking tat-sa.msk?ra to refer to the sole impression of awakened consciousness itself (drutarasa = cidrasa).
> 
> very best,
> CW
> 

Dear Members,

just after an interminable car trip in Central Europe, I do not have the mental alertness to express my overall and detailed opinion on this very interesting matter. For the moment, at least, I can?t refrain from making some short remarks on the last point (and indirectly on my alleged ?confusion?). 

yad? tu par?m???a-nityatva-vy?pitv?di-dharmakai?varya-ghan?tman? ahambh?va-siddharasena ??ny?di-deha-dh?tv-anta? vidhyate yena prameyatv?t tat cyavata iva, tad? turyada??; 
yad?pi viddho 'sau pr??a-deh?di-dh?tu? sa?vid-rasena abhinivi??o ?tyanta? kanaka-dh?tur iva j?r?a? kriyate yena sa druta-rasa iva ?bh?ti kevala? tat-sa?sk?ra?, tad?pi tury?t?ta-da?? s? bhavati. 

drutarasa is clearly (at least to my mind) a bahuvr?hi depending on pr??a-deh?di-dh?tu? . However fairly elliptical, also the following tatsa?sk?ra? also has to be taken as a bahuvr?hi, nuancing sa drutarasa iva ?bh?ti (of course, we would have been very grateful to Abh. for a more merciful tatsa?sk?rasahita?, or so?; also possibly to be understood as: ?only, the sa?sk?ras left by body, pr??a, etc. [for the moment still remains]). The key term is here kevalam, which introduces a restriction with the regards the previous statement (which also contains in itself the germ of a possible restriction: drutarasa *iva*.  Wallis? alternative interpretation ("the sole impression of awakened consciousness itself?) does not convince me: in these contexts sa?sk?ra? always refers to the residual traces left by ?inferior? realities on the way of their being progressively overcome or transfigured (see e.g. the somewhat parallel passage in IPVV III p. 348 tannijar?pasamyagviddhakanakar?pat?tyantajara??p?ditatatsa?sk?rava?ap?talat?va?e?avidrutarasany?yena).

I should like also to add that the tury?t?ta sam?ve?a, which this passage refers to, is not something intrinsically different from turya, but only its progressive extension, which virtually leads the complete elimination of the sa?sk?ras too. In saying ?virtually? I mean that for these authors this is in a sense an endless process. After all, if the process were indeed completed, how could sam?ve?a itself be possible? As Abhinava says (IPV on III.2.12) sam?ve?apallav? eva ca prasiddhadeh?dipram?t?bh?gaprahv?bh?vabh?van?nupr??it?? [?] dehap?te tu parame?vara evaikarasa? , ---- iti ka? kutra katha? sam?vi?et.
 
More (perhaps) to follow.

All best wishes to the members of this wonderful list
Raffaele Torella




Prof. Raffaele Torella
Chair of Sanskrit
Istituto Italiano di Studi Orientali
Sapienza Universit? di Roma
www.scribd.com/raffaeletorella







-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20140710/6dc1d1ff/attachment.htm>

