From julia.hegewald at uni-bonn.de  Tue Aug 26 14:02:12 2014
From: julia.hegewald at uni-bonn.de (Julia Hegewald)
Date: Tue, 26 Aug 14 16:02:12 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Book announcement: In the Shadow of the Golden Age: Art and Identity in Asia from Gandhara to the Modern Age
In-Reply-To: <D0225EEA.15277%julia.hegewald@uni-bonn.de>
Message-ID: <D0226005.1527C%julia.hegewald@uni-bonn.de>

Dear colleagues and friends,

I am happy to share with you information on my latest book, which came out
in May and which is an edited volume on the concept of the 'golden age' in
Asian art. 

The book is the first volume of a new publication series, called 'Studies in
Asian Art and Culture' (SAAC) which I have just established with
EB-Publishers in Berlin. This year, the first three volumes of the series
will appear in print. For further information see (
http://www.ioa.uni-bonn.de/abteilungen/aik/saac-studies-in-asian-art-and-cul
ture). 

Below are information on Volume 1  which can be order from EB-Publishers
directly (http://www.ebverlag.de, or by sending an email to:
post at ebverlag.de), by using the attached flyer or via Amazon Germany
(Amazon.de).



In the Shadow of the Golden Age:
Art and Identity in Asia from Gandhara to the Modern Age

Julia A. B. Hegewald (ed.)
May 2014?? 584 pages?? EB-Verlag, Berlin??
Hardcover ISBN: 978-3-86893-149-5
? 98,00


This volume examines and debates the validity and usefulness of the concept
of the golden age when investigating, structuring and categorising Asian and
Islamic art. The book contains contributions from fifteen renowned
international specialists in the visual arts and humanities working on
material from a wide range of periods and regions throughout Asia and the
Islamic world.
 
Instead of concentrating on the so-called ?high points? and ?golden ages? of
art, which have so far stood at the centre of art-historical enquiries, this
text focuses on visual expressions of confrontation with the ?other? during
times of change. These challenging but artistically often very fertile
periods were marked by intense efforts by communities in search of new
identities.
 
Through their art and frequently through the re-use of old symbols in new
settings they have succeeded in redefining themselves so as to strengthen
their religious, cultural or political position. In the history of art,
these less investigated phases raise new issues, which contribute
significantly to the discipline.
 
The book has been enriched with a Foreword by Partha Mitter, has a valuable
glossary and is beautifully illustrated. It offers novel insights to the
specialist and introduces a fascinating new area of enquiry to the general
reader.
 
Contributors:
Susan L. Huntington, Ciro Lo Muzio, John C. Huntington, Petra H. R?sch,
William A. Southworth, Sarah Shaw, Christoph Emmrich, Tiziana Lorenzetti,
Julia A. B. Hegewald, Mallica Kumbera Landrus, Jennifer Howes, Eva-Maria
Troelenberg, Nalini Balbir, Parul Dave Mukherji, Regina H?fer.



Table of Contents
 
Foreword
The Golden Age, History and Memory in Modernity
Partha Mitter
 
Preface
 
Chapter 1
Introduction: Out of the Shadow of the Golden Age
Julia A. B. Hegewald
 
Chapter 2 
Buddhist Art Through a Modern Lens:
A Case of a Mistaken Scholarly Trajectory
Susan L. Huntington
 
Chapter 3
The Legacy of Gandh?ra in Central Asian Painting
Ciro Lo Muzio
 
Chapter 4
The ?Movable? Golden Ages:
?Western? Asiatic Art Beyond its Homeland and Transitioning to Central and
North-East Asia
John C. Huntington
 
Chapter 5
?Golden Age? and ?Decline? in Art-Historical Writing on Chinese Buddhist
Sculpture: Describing a Shifting Discourse
Petra Hildegard R?sch

Chapter 6
The Alteration and Destruction of Buddhist Images at Angkor,
During the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Centuries
William A. Southworth
 
Chapter 7
Art and Narrative in Changing Conditions:
Southern Buddhist Temple Art as an Accommodation of the New and Diverse
Sarah Shaw
 
Chapter 8
Performing Endangerment: Damage, Loss and Maintenance in the Historiography
of Newar Religious Artefacts
Christoph Emmrich
 
Chapter 9
Political and Social Dimensions as Reflected in Medieval Indian Sculpture:
Comparisons, Antagonism, Identity
Tiziana Lorenzetti
 
Chapter 10
Golden Age or Kali-Yuga?:
The Changing Fortunes of Jaina Art and Identity in Karnataka
Julia A. B. Hegewald
 
Chapter 11
Trans-Cultural Temples: Identity and Practice in Goa
Mallica Kumbera Landrus
 
Chapter 12
Indian ?Company School? Art from 1780 to 1820: Collecting Versus Documenting
Jennifer Howes
 
Chapter 13
The ?Golden Age? and the Secession:
Approaches to Alterity in Early Twentieth-century World Art
Eva-Maria Troelenberg

Chapter 14
Old Texts, New Images:
Illustrating the ?vet?mbara Jaina ?gamas Today
Nalini Balbir
 
Chapter 15
Entangled Temporality:
Contemporary Indian Artists and Their Retakes on the ?Golden? Age
Parul Dave Mukherji

Chapter 16
Shanghai, Paris, Little Lhasa: On Global Perspectives of Contemporary
Tibetan Art or The Multiplicity of Artistic Golden Ages
Regina H?fer 
 
Glossary
 
List of Plates
 
Notes on Contributors
 
Index


SAAC Volume 2 will appear in the autumn and is "The Hindu Temple: Structure
and Symbols" by Tiziana Lorenzetti.


With questions or suggestions, please do not hesitate to contact me
directly.

With best wishes,

Julia.

-- 
Prof. Dr. Julia A. B. Hegewald
Professor of Oriental Art History
Head of Department
University of Bonn
Institute of Oriental and Asian Studies (IOA)
Department of Asian and Islamic Art History
Adenauerallee 10
53113 Bonn
Germany

Email: julia.hegewald at uni-bonn.de
www.aik.uni-bonn.de
Tel. 0049-228-73 7213
Fax. 0049-228-73 4042





