From huntington.2 at OSU.EDU  Tue Mar  8 02:21:04 2011
From: huntington.2 at OSU.EDU (John C. Huntington)
Date: Mon, 07 Mar 11 21:21:04 -0500
Subject: New Maps On the Huntington Archive
Message-ID: <161227091706.23782.12908235352778886166.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Friends & Colleagues

The list of maps on the Huntington Archive has grown rather substantially since October!

The four most recent additions are:

1) (Entitled "Minor states during the Kushan Period" and located as the last map in the "Bactro-Gandhara History" section) 
A Numismatically important locator for the Parata (Paradan) Rajas and their state in what is now South-western Pakistan.  It is based on Pankaj Tandon's article, "The Location and Kings of Paradan," forthcoming, Studia Iranica (2011).  My deepest gratitude to Pankaj for sharing the preliminary data me so I could provide the map.  

2) (Entitled "Trade Routes and the Transmission of Buddhism : ca. 250 BCE- 1500 CE" Located in the third row of the "detailed Maps" section) 
A series of three maps of the trans-Asian trade routes both for trade and the spread of Buddhism through Asia with a list of Buddhist pilgrims and teachers who travelled various places. There are three different maps each small with reduced data because there is one for power point, one mid size for direct display on a computer and a large one for detailed examinations that is also suitable for printing in wall map size. The original was made for HH 17th Karmapa for a book on the Karmapa Linage he published. It seemed potentially useful for distribution on the web as well 

3) (Entitled "Nepal Trade-routes" and located in the third row of the Detailed maps section) 
A topgraphic map depicting the trade-routes through the Himalaya that were of importance both to the Khasa Mall and the Kingdoms of the Kathmandu Valley  (The small one is way too small?we will fix that soon)

4) (Entitled "The Heart of Tantric Asia" and located in the third row of "Detailed Maps" section)
A full scale map and smaller derivatives of the end papers map from Dina's and my  "Circle of Bliss: Buddhist Meditational Art". It depictsHimalayan Asia from Kashmir in the west to the Yunnan area of China in the east and from  Qinghai in the North to Aurangabad in the south. While it is too detailed for a PowerPoint it can be assigned or downloaded for use.

I am sorry to say I will not be at the maps again until fall or later this year.

Enjoy and I do hope they are useful.

Cheers and Sarvamangalam to all 

John




