by an elaborate wedding ceremony." (From a joint review with JAREENA:
PORTRAIT OF A HIJDA. "Both films are visually pleasing and nonsensational
in tone."


EYES OF STONE*
(Nilita Vachani, 1989, 90 min)
(Doordarshan 16mm film)
Distributor: Not known
"A film about women and the ritual of spirit possession and cure: a ritual
of faith, rebellion and individual expression that thrives within the
confines of a stringent patriarchal order. Shot in the Bhilwara district
of Rajasthan, India, the film documents one woman's participation in the
ritual and, through it, the strengths and sadnesses of her life.
     Shanta is 19 years old. Married at the age of 10, she is the mother
of two sons. Her husband, Nandlal, a truck driver, is away on long-
distance trips most of the time.
     Shanta has been ill for five years. It all began, she says, with the
evil gaze of a 'dakan' (witch). She suffers from headaches, bodyaches and
fevers, a sense of dissociation and disinterest in the world around her.
For the duration of her cure, Shanta lives with her parents and her
brother. They have taken her to doctors, tried different medicines, but
nothing has helped. Now, the family feels that this is no 'ordinary'
illness. They pin all their hopes on the goddess, Bhankya Mata.
     Every Saturday, for five weeks, Shanta appears before the goddess.
Like hundreds of other possessed women, she goes into trance, and 'plays'
(the Hindi 'khelna'). In trance, the goddess 'comes' to her, and engages
the troublesome spirit in a battle of words, of wit, repartee, performance
and physical duress, in which the spirit must ultimately accept defeat.
     The ritualised healing is a turning point in Shanta's life. After her
cure, she puts on her make-up and resumes her normal routine. She retunrs
with her husband to his village. True to the tradition, she covers up her
face and speaks in whispers. She is now the wife and mother - cooking,
cleaning, washing, sweeping.
     The film has an inherent narrative structure as we move from Shanta's
'abnormal' outbursts during possession to her socially defined behaviour
at her husband's home. The _cinema verite_ approach weaves a tapestry of
strongly defined characters, details of a rural, low-income Rajasthani
household, personal interactions that reveal the pathos of commonplace,
everyday problems; and midst it all, an unshakeable faith in the mother
goddess, 'who knows what is best, who knows all'." (from cover note to
video)


FLOATING IN THE AIR FOLLOWED BY THE WIND
(Ronald Simons, 1973)
Distributor: University of California Extension Media Center
H6: 65-6
"A film ...  about Thaipusam, a Tamil Hindu religious  festival in Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia. Worshippers pierce themselves with spears and hooks, and
carry highly decorated shoulder poles, called _kavadi_, to the place of
pilgrimage, a sacred cave. Preparations begin weeks before, and include
tutelage by a spiritual leader, a guru, who is skilled in inducing
entranced states. The trance state that occurs during the procession,
accompanied by rhythmic music and dance, prevents the worshippers from
experiencing pain." (description from LC)


FOREST OF BLISS*
(Produced by Robert Gardner and Akos Ostor and directed by Robert Gardner,
1987, 89 min)
Distributor: Arthur Cantor Films
Robert Gardner's notorious movie on Varanasi. An art film rather than an
ethnography, this is of limited use for teaching purposes, but it is
undoubtedly a fascinating case-study in creative film-making.
R-273 = _SVA Newsletter_ 4,2 (1988), 1-7 and 5,1 (1989), 2-3; _Film
Quarterly_ 41,1 (1987), 58-61; AA 91,1 (1989), 273-4; _Humanism Quarterly_
12,3/4 (1987), 97-98


FOUR HINDU SADHUS
also known as FOUR HOLY MEN: RENUNCIATION IN HINDU SOCIETY
(Mira Beym Binford and Michael Camerini, 37 min)
Distributor: South Asia Film Center, University of Wisconsin
"... examines several traditional ways in which a Hindu may renounce the
world and yet retain an integral role in society. The film focuses on four
different types of sadhus: a traditional guru who heads a monastery; a
scholar who is also the founder of a national political party; and a
recluse with no organizational ties [this makes three?]. Why did these
people choose the life of renunciation? Ho do they relate to the society
they have renounced." (details and description from H6: 67)
Also described in RAI Film Catalogue, p.19


GIVEN TO DANCE
(Produced and directed by Ron Hess, 1985, 57 min)
Distributor: South Asia Film Center, University of Wisconsin
R-332 = AA 88,4 (1986), 1040-42
On Odissi dance. Ex-temple dancers (_mahari_ or _devadasi_) speak about
their former lives to the modern Odissi dancer Madhavi Mudgal. Also
includes dances of the _gotipua_ (boy dancers) of Orissa, modern Odissi
dance performed by Madhavi Mudgal, and sequences from the chariot festival
of the Jagannath Temple at Puri. Would perhaps go well with Frederique
Marglin's _Wives of the God-King_.


HAIL MOTHER KALI: A TRIBUTE TO THE TRADITIONS AND HEALING
ARTS BROUGHT TO
GUYANA BY INDENTURED MADRASI LABOURERS
(Produced and directed by Stephanos Stephanides, 1988, 60 minutes)
Distributor: Singer-Sharrette Productions
R-735 = AA 91,2 (1989), 531-33
"This video traces three days and nights of a Hindu _puja_ (healing
ceremony) in the canefields of Berbice, Guyana... The ceremony documented
is the anual Big Puja at the Blairmont Kali Temple... The goddess
incarnate seeing patients is more fully illustrated in the film DIVINE
MADNESS... While DIVINE MADNESS is appropriate for students of
ethnomedicine, clinical psychology, nursing, and related health fields,
HAIL MOTHER KALI will be more useful to students of religion, culture
history, expressive culture, and semiotics. It is not appropriate for use
with undergraduate students lacking prior introdction to Hinduism." (from
AA review)


HINDU LOAVES AND FISHES
(Produced and directed by Philip Singer, 1985, 20 min)
Distributor: Traditional Healing Films/Earth Research
R-701 = AA 88,4 (1986), 1042-43
"An ethnographic study of Hindu shamanism centred on trance-linked
materialization of objects, this film is a true workshop view of a Hindu
holy man-cum-magician... The scenario is set with a Hindu professor of
biochemistry who regards this particular yogi as his personal guru and
believes he has achieved siddhi (occult powers) through austere
meditational techniques... The actual entry of Siddha Baba... into trance
and his trance-generated comportment is exquisitely done, by far the best
segment of the film, complete with hyperventilation, groans, and sundry
other sounds..." [AA review] Agehananda Bharati's review is critical of
several aspects of the film, but it might be useful with appropriate
introduction.


THE HINDU RITUAL SANDHYA
(Produced by Doris Srinivasan, 19 min.)
Distributor: Center for Mass Communication of Columbia University Press
R-733 = 76,1 (1974), 218-9
"The film is a clear, straightforward presentation of a Smarta Brahmin
pandit performing his morning and evening prayers on the banks of a South
Indian river... The seeming multitude of gods mentioned during the prayers
are illustrated by cutaways to sculptures and paintings of them..." (from
AA review)


THE HO: PEOPLE OF THE RICE POT
(Michael and Valerie Yorke, 70 min.)
Distributor: (On hire from RAI Film Library)
"The Ho... are a secluded tribe of the Mundari-speaking group living in
the southern part of Bihar state in India. The film focusses on the life
ofe one man, his two wives and seven children in order to portray the
annual cycle of events and activities. They are shown engaged in
subsistence activities such as foraging in the forest and harvesting rice,
and in ritual and ceremonial observances... Shot over an eighteen-month
period, [the film] is able to recreate the atmosphere of everyday life for
the Ho, locating festival and ceremony firmly in the context of the
agricultural cycle..."
(Details and description from RAI Film Catalogue, p.25)


A HUMAN SEARCH: THE LIFE OF FATHER BEDE GRIFFITHS
(59 minutes)
Distributor (in Australia): Society of St Francis
"An intimate portrait of one of the greatest mystics and thinkers of this
century."


IMAGE INDIA: THE HINDU WAY
(Daniel H. Smith; series of 11 short films)
Distributor: Syracuse University Film Rental Center
R-707 = AA 74,6 (1972) 1585-87
H6: 79
"An eleven-film series on Hindu religious rites and celebrations...
photographed on location among the Tengalai Sri-vaisnava Brahmins of
Madras, Southern India... each film comes with a helpful Users' Guide" (AA
review quoted in H6)
The individual films are:

HOW A HINDU WORSHIPS: AT THE HOME SHRINE (18 min)
HINDU TEMPLE RITES: BATHING THE IMAGE OF GOD (13 min)
HINDU SACRAMENTS OF CHILDHOOD: THE FIRST FIVE YEARS (25 min)
MONTHLY ANCESTRAL OFFERINGS IN HINDUISM (8 min.)
RADHA'S DAY: HINDU FAMILY LIFE (17 min)
PILGRIMAGE TO A HINDU TEMPLE (14 min)
HINDU PROCESSION TO THE SEA (8 min)
THE HINDU SACRAMENT OF THREAD INVESTITURE (14 min)
HINDU DEVOTIONS AT DAWN (10 min)
THE HINDU SACRAMENT OF SURRENDER (8 min)
A HINDU FAMILY CELEBRATION: 60TH BIRTHDAY (9 min)


IN THE NAME OF GOD (_RAM KE NAM_)*
(Anand Patwardhan.  90 minutes)
Distributor: First Run Icarus.
"In recent years, religious fundamentalism has swept across the globe. In
India, state repression has added credibility to separatist demands, but
by far the biggest danger to the nation's secular fabric comes from groups
appealing to the 80% Hindu majority to redefine India as a Hindu nation
and to put aside Gandhi's non-violent methods. Ayodhya, city of the epic
poem Ramayana, and city of a famous 16th century mosque, provides a focus
for this tragic drama. The film documents stresses between violent
impulses and non-violent efforts to prevent the spread of religious
intolerance." (_Asian Studies Newsletter_ No.2 (1993), p.9)
Also _Asian Studies Newsletter_ (Jan-Feb 1993), p.4; (Jan-Feb 1994, p.7)


AN INDIAN PILGRIMAGE: KASHI
(Mira Reym Binford and Michael Camerini, 30 min.)
Distributor: South Asia Film Center, University of Wisconsin
 H6: 82
"The film begins with a detailed examination of an 1825 drawing of the
bathing steps of Kashi (Benares) ... and then abruptly shifts to shots of
the same bathing steps ... in the 1970s... The camera then leads us on a
tour of the pilgrimage centre... Halfway through the film, the film-makers
pick up two middle-class urban couples, natives of South India, who have
made the journey to Kashi. The two couples are asked their reasons for
coming... The film comes to life in the course of a long sequence on the
offerings to the ancestors when the narrator abandons his comments in
favour of subtitles which capture the dialogue between the priests and the
two couples... What is missing from the film is some explanation of the
sacred geography of the town and, indeed, of the cosmos... As it stands,
the film would make a suitable introduction to Indian pilgrimage for
students who are somewhat unfamiliar with the south Asian sub-continent."
(from description in RAI Film Catalogue, pp.26-27)


AN INDIAN PILGRIMAGE: RAMDEVRA
(Mira Reym Binford and Michael Camerini, 26 min.)
Distributor: South Asia Film Center, University of Wisconsin
H6: 82
R-076 = AA 78,4 (1976), 958
"Ramdev was a 15th-century warrior-saint of western India who effected
various miracles in his lifetime and whose miraculous power, according to
present-day devotees, continues to emanate from the grave where the saint
lies buried. The opening sequence of the film introduces the viewer to a
small group of Ramdev devotees living in Bombay who have decided to travel
together to the saint's shrine at Ramdevra on the occasion of the saint's
death-day... While worshipping at the shrine, one of the women in th
Bombay group becomes possessed by Ramdev. Other devotees escort the
possessed woman to a neighbouring shrine of a female disciple of Ramdev
and assist her in expressing ecstatically her devotion to Ramdev... during
the latter part of the film the camera focuses on the festival activities
of the pilgrims outside the shrine... This film touches on a number of
interesting topics in the study of Indian pilgrimage: the relationship
between the central shrine and the local organization of a cult, the
significance of women in organizing pilgrimage groups, the worship at the
same shrine of both Hindus and Muslims, and the overlay of Muslim ideas
(burial shrine of an historical personage) and Hindu ideas (Ramdev is an
incarnation of the eternal Krishna) at the same shrine. Unfortunately the
narrator does not pick up these points in sufficient detail..." There is a
good accompanying booklet; Mira Binford has also written an article on the
pilgrimage in Bardwell Smith (Ed) _Hinduism: New Essays in the History of
Religions_, Brill, Leiden 1976. (from description in RAI Film Catalogue,
pp.27-28)


IRAMUDUN (DISPELLING DEMONS)*
(Produced by Barrie Machin, 1985, 45 min.)
Distributor: Pennsylvania State Universty, Audio Visual Services
Sinhalese exorcistic dance-ritual. "This is an honest, competent, well-
made and instructive film. Together with Bruce Kapferer's book, _A
Celebration of Demons_,... it affords an excellent opportunity to study a
ritual process that has not been documented before... Questions about
meaning are (presumably) left for Kapferer's book to answer..." (from AA
review)
R-466 = AA 90,2 (1988), 493-4


THE JAINS: A RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY OF INDIA
(Marcus Banks, Caroline Humphrey and James Laidlaw, 1985, 35 min.)
Distributor: Department of Social Anthropology, Cambridge University, U.K.
Mentioned in review of AHIMSA, NON-VIOLENCE in AA 91 (1989), p.1094.


JAREENA: PORTRAIT OF A HIJDA
(Prem Kalliat)
Distributor: Visionova
AA 95 (1993), 517-8
On the _hijra_ (transvestite) community of India. "Well known to Indians
is the custom a groups of _hijras_ celebrating a birth in a prosperous
household by song and dance, and by blessing the newborn... Less well
known is the caste-like structure of the _hijra_ community and its
religious cult centering on a goddess who is pleased by the sacrifice
performed by an initiated _hijra_ of "her" male genitalia. Both the caste
and the cult are detailed by Nanda [Serena Nanda, _Neither Man nor Woman_,
Wadsworth 1990]... The film centers on Jareena, a young man from Kerala
who works, dressed as a woman, in a massage parlor in Bangalore. Includes
a birth celebration; Jareena also gives a description of her ritual
