Nepalese ms destruction
The primary notification we learned of the destruction of the
Sanskrit university was on www.nepalnews.com and published in
Kathmandu Post
Rebels set ablaze Mahendra Sanskrit University
By K P Ghimire
KATHMANDU, May 12   Maoist rebels on Saturday night set ablaze
offices of the country's only Sanskrit University-Mahendra Sanskrit
University-in Beljhundi of Dang district, reducing estimated property
worth Rs. 27.5 million to a cinder.
The university is located about 15 kilometres west of Ghorahi, the
district headquarters of Dang. But nobody was hurt in the incident,
university officials said.
Around 200 rebels, most of whom were women, surrounded the
university's premises and torched most of the offices which include
Administration Office, Office of the Controller of Examinations and
offices of Vice-chancellor, Registrar and Rector.
Following the arson of the university complex, around 50,000 ancient
Sanskrit textbooks, including Kalchakra Ambika have been completely
reduced to ashes.
Talking over telephone, Chudamani Adhikari, administrative officer of
the university, told The Kathmandu Post that the rebels doused the
offices with kerosene and set them on fire.
All the furniture and records of students for the last 14 years were
destroyed, said eyewitnesses. The rebels snatched keys of the offices
from security guards and ravaged the university property, Adhikari
said, adding that the students of All Nepal Independent Students'
Union-Revolutionary (ANISU-Revolutionary) were largely responsible
for the attack.
The rebels had also blocked the road leading toward the university in
a bid to prevent the security forces from reaching there. It was just
last year that the rebels exploded a powerful crude bomb in the
office of the Vice-chancellor, Purna Chandra Dhungel, who usually
stays in Kathmandu.
Shortly after an very informed Newar  Sanskritist friend down scaled
the number but specifically mentioned manuscripts as being described
in the paper as "ancient Sankirit textbooks."
Dina and I would love to have been misinformed.
John
