Vacancy: Chair of Sanskrit at Leiden University
Within the next two weeks, the following position will be advertised in
Dutch
and international newspapers.
LEIDEN UNIVERSITY
FACULTY OF ARTS
CHAIR OF SANSKRIT 
Professor in the field of Sanskrit (1.0)
This professorship covers the entire breadth of the field of Sanskrit. The
candidate?s area of specialisation must fall within this field, and he or
she must have a research record that reflects a broad cultural-historical
approach and an international orientation. This chair is pivotal within the
Department of Indology (TCZCA)
Vacancy number 4-050.
The appointment involves the following:
- teaching in the field Sanskrit in all of its varieties;
- conducting research in the field of the chair;
- initiating, stimulating and supervising doctorate research;
- sharing in the administration of the Department of Indology, the School of
Asian, African and Amerindian Studies CNWS, the Faculty of Arts, as well as
other organisations relevant to the field of the chair and to the
department. 
- carrying the responsibility for the Department of Indology as long as
other chairs within the department are vacant;
- promoting the interests of the field of the professorship and the
department, in the Netherlands as well as abroad.
The successful candidate will hold a doctorate and possess:
- sound knowledge of Sanskrit and familiarity with the various genres of the
literature of this language. The successful candidate is specialised in an
area that falls within the broad field of Sanskrit. Good knowledge of Vedic
will be considered advantageous;
- sound knowledge of the culture, both present and past, of the Indian
subcontinent. A good knowledge a modern Indian language will be considered
advantageous;
- an excellent research track record in the field of the professorship,
reflected in a substantial list of field-related publications with renowned
publishers or in leading journals. The successful candidate?s work reflects
a strongly international orientation;
- excellent teaching skills as well as considerable experience in academic
teaching in various formats;
- Proven administrative and management skills, and a willingness to take an
active part in administrative and managerial tasks within the department,
the relevant research institutes and the Faculty of Arts;
If the candidate is not a native speaker of Dutch, he or she will be
expected to become competent in Dutch within two years.
The application procedure will include a trial lecture and an assessment of
the candidate?s managerial skills.
Applicants, as well as those who wish to bring candidates to the attention
of the appointments committee, should apply in writing to the Dean of the
Faculty of Arts at the following address within four weeks from the
publication of this advertisement:
Professor T. van Haaften
c/o Faculty of Arts
P.O. Box 9515
2300 RA Leiden
The Netherlands
The application should contain a curriculum vitae, a list of publications
and a plan for future research. Potential candidates can obtain further
information on this position from the Faculty of Arts Office, which can be
reached at +31 (0)71 - 527 23 18 or via e-mail:
m.l.p.remmerswaal at let.leidenuniv.nl. This information can also be accessed
at www.leidenuniv.nl/let/faculteit/index.html, under the heading
Hoogleraarsvacatures. Further information regarding this chair can be
obtained from the Dean of the Faculty; he can be reached at the telephone
number above.
The University of Leiden wishes to employ more women, and therefore
particularly encourages women to apply.
