None
Hello Colleagues,
I am forwarding this message on behalf of the American Institute of
Pakistan Studies.  Please consider helping the project if you can with
syllabi, images, or contacts.
Yours,
Christian
Dear All,
The American Institute for Pakistan Studies has been working this summer to
enhance the AIPS website with additional features.  One of the projected
sections on the website pertains to teaching resources. This section is
intended to offer resources for not only for K-12 instruction, but also for
academic presentations and course preparation at post-graduate, graduate
and undergraduate levels.  We're hoping to make this a useful resource for
the academic community, and to that end we're looking for the help of the
academic community in two areas.
The first area is an archive of syllabi online as references of courses
taught on issues related in any way to Pakistan Studies (or general South
Asia and/or Middle East).
The second area in which we're looking for assistance is the collection of
an online slide database with digital images of all aspects of Pakistan, to
be used in multi-media classrooms.
All materials would remain the sole property of the person who sends them
and will be cited as such, and there will be no way for users to copy any
of the materials.  Additionally, access will be free and open to the
public, but users will be required to register.
We would be very appreciative if you could forward us any appropriate
syllabi, slides, and/or related materials, with your permission to use them
online, to my attention by emailing me at jcaron at sas.upenn.edu, and/or to
Sakina Rizvi's attention at srizvi at pardis.sas.upenn.edu. Additionally, if
you know of someone else that we should contact for this information, we'd
appreciate his/her information, so that we may speak to them regarding this
project.
Thank you very much for your assistance.
Best,
James Caron
AIPS
Christian Lee Novetzke
Department of South Asia Studies
University of Pennsylvania
820 Williams Hall, 36th and Spruce Streets
Philadelphia, PA 19104-6305
Email: cln at sas.upenn.edu        Website: http://www.sas.upenn.edu/~cln
Tel (215) 898-7475              Fax: (215) 573-2138
