HINDU STUDIES POSITION AT MICHIGAN
Dear Indologists,
   Below I am enclosing the text of the advertisement for a position in Hindu Studies at the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.  Please pass this along to relevant lists and interested individuals.  All correspondence should be sent to the address given in the ad, and not directed to me personally.  Thanks.
   Madhav Deshpande
   University of Michigan
The Department of Asian Languages and Cultures at the University of Michigan invites applications for a tenure-track position in Hindu Studies, beginning in September 2005. Appointment is possible at any rank.  Applicants from a wide variety of periods and fields within Hindu Studies will be considered, but all applicants should possess a high level of proficiency in one or more South Asian languages as well as the ability to teach undergraduate courses on both historical and contemporary periods.  The successful candidate is expected to teach a range of courses in Hindu Studies from introductory undergraduate lecture courses through graduate seminars in areas of research interest; to supervise doctoral dissertations; and to participate actively in the programs of the departments as well as in area studies initiatives within a larger university community that encourages interdisciplinary efforts.  Of special interest are candidates who share a commitment to historically-grounded scholarship that is both rigorous and original and who are drawn to the intellectual opportunities afforded by programs of significant contextual depth. Evidence of outstanding teaching ability and of promise in research is essential. The Ph.D. is expected to have been completed prior to appointment. Each application should consist of a cover letter (describing the applicant?s scholarly work, teaching, and research plans), a full CV, research statement, representative publications or a writing sample, and at least three letters of recommendation.  Please send applications to Hindu Studies Search, Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, 3070 Frieze Building, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI  48109-1285 (email secretary to the chair: kjmunson at umich.edu).  Review of applications begins November 29, 2004. Applications must be received by December 10, 2004 to be assured of consideration. The University of Michigan is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and members of minority groups are especially encouraged to apply. The University is supportive of the needs of dual career couples.  All applications will be acknowledged.
