Help on installing fonts on Mac OS 10.3.5
Here is what worked for me:  Copy your font files onto a CD,
insert the CD into your new Mac, and copy the font(s) into
your "libraries".  (You can find the libraries, of which
there is more than one, serving different functions,
including the "MacClassic" operating system, by doing a
search [command f] from the desktop.)
One thing you should be aware of:  On the new operating
system, you can still see old bitmapped fonts in MS Word, but
they won't print.  So you need to convert all bitmapped fonts
(even those embedded in graphics) to corresponding postscript
or truetype fonts.
The "upside" is that once you have only postscript or
truetype fonts in your documents, you can use the "print"
command, select the 'save as pdf document' button, and you
get a pdf-file that recognizes any postscript or truetype
fonts, not just the ones that Adobe in all its wisdom
considers acceptable.  To make sure the document is
recognizable as a pdf-file on other platforms you need to
make sure to add the extension ".pdf" to your file name.
I hope this helps.
Best wishes,
Hans
computer (OS 9.1), and using my fonts Madhushree and
ManjushreeCSX without any problems.  Recently I acquired an
iMac G5 computer that runs OS 10.3.5 (Panther), and so far I
have not been able to install my old fonts or keyboard
layouts on OS 10.3.5.   I have too many current projects that
use these fonts and if I cannot load them on to the new
machine, it is practically useless for my purposes.   I am
hoping that some of you who use my Mac fonts have figured out
how to use them on OS 10.3.5.  If you have been successful in
using these fonts on OS 10.3.5, please let me know how you
did it.  You can send a personal message to me
(mmdesh at umich.edu).  Thanks in anticipation.
Hans Henrich Hock
Professor of Linguistics and Sanskrit
Department of Linguistics
4080 FLB, MC-168
University of Illinois
707 S. Mathews
Urbana, IL  61801-3652, USA
E-mail hhhock at staff.uiuc.edu
Ceterum censeo curiam internationalem iuris criminalis esse instituendam consensu senatus populique americani
