Position at the University of British Columbia
Dear Colleagues,
Kindly bring the announcement reproduced below to the attention of all
qualified scholars. Most inquiries will probably be better answered by the
Chair, South Asian Search, Dept. of Asian Studies, Univ. of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6T 1Z2. However, if the
prospective candidates specializing in one or more of the following areas
need some specific  information pertaining to the study of the areas at UBC,
I may be able to supply it (such interested persons, as far as possible,
should call me on my office telephone number, 1 (country code)- 604 (area
code)-822-5185,  before contacting the Chair; I am unlikely to find the time
needed to respond to e-mails; messages for me to return the call can be left
on 1-604-822-0019): Sanskrit, Pali, Prakrit, Indology in general, early
Hinduism/Vedism/Brahmanism, Indian Buddhism, Jainism, Indian philosophy.
Many thanks. Sorry for any cross-postings.
Ashok Aklujkar
Professor
South Asian History, Language and Culture
University of British Columbia
The Dept. of Asian Studies seeks to appoint an assistant professor (tenure
track) of South Asian History, Language and Culture to begin in July
2005.  The successful candidate is expected to have an earned doctorate, an
outstanding research agenda, excellent knowledge of a South Asian language
required for her/his research and evidence of excellence in
scholarship.  Applicants should send a letter of application describing
their research interests and agenda, a current CV, and complete transcripts
of university-level education, and should arrange for three letters of
reference to be sent to the Chair, South Asian Search, Dept. of Asian
Studies, Univ. of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6T
1Z2.  Letters of application and supporting materials can also be sent
electronically to asia.admin at arts.ubc.ca.  The deadline for applications is
December 15, 2004.  The position is subject to final budgetary
approval.  UBC hires on the basis of merit and is committed to employment
equity.  We encourage all qualified persons to apply; however Canadians and
permanent residents of Canada will be given priority.
