From vidya at cco.caltech.edu  Sat Apr 19 02:22:25 1997
From: vidya at cco.caltech.edu (Vidyasankar Sundaresan)
Date: Fri, 18 Apr 97 19:22:25 -0700
Subject: [Fwd: Re: REQUEST:Cloning of sheep:Duplicate Souls?]
Message-ID: <161227029814.23782.3196875880247578101.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>



>  cloning however, raises the question of the relation between life and
> soul...and maybe time and knowledge.  

I don't think this is a very appropriate subject for this list, but here
are my $0.02 anyway. 

Strictly speaking, cloning raises no more troubling questions about life
and soul than good old sexual reproduction, or artificial insemination
and in vitro fertilization or surrogate motherhood do. It is just a
different method of moving DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) around and getting 
it to replicate. It seems to me that most of the questions raised about
cloning are based on one questionable premise, viz. that the creation
(birth, if you will) of a new body implies the creation of a new soul.
This premise is questionable because normal sexual reproduction also
results in a new body, and nobody is overly concerned about creating or
duplicating souls this way. No religion, whatever its individual
conception of soul may be, would consider that the father and mother have
actually created a new soul. They would rather assign such creatorship to
God or say that the soul is eternal and never created. Why not extend the
same religious sensibility to a clone?

The problems people perceive with cloning also overlook a more
fundamental question that biology poses - namely the fact that there is no
life (and may be no souls) without the material basis in the nucleic
acids, RNA and DNA. If you are worried about "creating" souls by cloning,
then you should be equally worried about whether the bacterium has a soul
as a human being does - after all, the life of both comes from the same
material source - and you should be worried about all sorts of ethical
problems about killing bacteria that cause infections and killing animals
to eat them. As an Indian scientist, I am almost tempted to say that
people in the West are not bothered about these questions, but get all
worked up over cloning, only because of their Judeo-Christian,
anthropomorphic constructions of soul and God. 

Really, the only moral/ethical problems with cloning (if it becomes
technically possible to do it successfully on humans, which by the way,
is not very sure) arise not from the fact that it can be done, but from
the question whether it should be done. That science can do something is
one thing. Whether a scientist should do it is another. Good scientists
will be the first to accept that, for something that affects people as
personally as the possibility of human cloning, scientists alone cannot
