Shirley Strum Kenny.  >From a marginal or no status in the curriculum,
India studies had grown rapidly, to gain campus approval for a Major
in South Asia. About 6 courses are offered every semester, and 7 are
planned for this summer.  They include Indian Feminism, South Asian
ethnography, and 6-credit Intensive (equivalent of one year) language
courses in Kannada, Hindi, and Sanskrit.

Introducing the Center, Professor Sridhar observed that India's fight
for freedom is usually referred to as a "movement," or a "struggle,"
but never as a "revolution."  The Center will work to correct
distortions in the representation of India, without becoming
parochial. Values, such as academic freedom, were often talked about
as if they were uniquely Western, but India had a distinguished
tradition of intellectual debate, right from the Upanishadic
times. The opening of the Center signified the opening of minds toward
India and the Center will strive to broaden scholars world-view to
include Indian thought and experience.

"These are exciting times for Asian Studies," said President Kenny.
Stony Brook was committed to building a strong Asian Studies Program,
including India Studies. The Stony Brook India Centers pragmatic and
integrated vision, encompassing the arts, humanities, sciences,
medicine, commerce and technology, will make it a leader in the next
generation of India Studies programs, Kenny said, and vowed to make it
the best in the nation.  She announced that the proposed Charles Wang
Asian American Center which is distinct from, but complements the
India Studies Center -- will feature state of the art facilities.

Dr. Azad K. Anand, Chair of the India Studies Foundation, who helped
raise $100,000 at a recent Shanti Fund event, said that the Stony
Brook India Studies was a top priority for the Indian American
community on Long Island.  He complimented President Kenny on her
vision and leadership.  He felt that the Stony Brook model of creating
an India Studies program which directly benefits students from day one
by offering a range of courses and activities was perhaps a more
feasible model of partnership between the community and public
universities than instituting a Chair.

Dr. V. S. Arunachalam, former Science Advisor to Prime Ministers of
India and Distinguished Professor of Engineering and Public policy at
Carnegie-Mellon University delivered the inaugural address on India's
progress since 1947.  Comparisons with Singapore, Korea, or Japan are
misplaced because of the "tyranny of scale," he added. India missed
out on the Industrial Revolution and inherited impossible odds, such
as its population and illiteracy.  It has not had as much time with
democracy as the U.S., nor did it adopt totalitarian policies like
China or the former Soviet Union.  Yet, its accomplishments were
impressive, he concluded.  The real winners are the people of India,
who have preserved democratic institutions.

He compared the India Centers plan to invite visiting professors to
the practice at the ancient centers of learning at Nalanda and
Saranath and commended the Centers commitment to intellectual
pluralism and openness.  The audience was thrilled by an inspiring
video made at the Center by Ashu Patel, an undergraduate student,
chronicling the evolution of student activism and its successful
outcome.

The program concluded with a three part concert, featuring Daisy
Paradis on the sitar and Tapan Modak, tabla; classical vocal music by
Dr. Aruna Sharma, who is teaching an India Music course at Stony
Brook, and a Kathak dance by Trupti Sevak.







