>?From mehta at kc235-2.mgmt.purdue.edu 22 1993 Sep U 09:49:45
Date: 22 Sep 1993 09:49:45 U
From: "Mehta, Shailendra" <mehta at kc235-2.mgmt.purdue.edu>
Subject: RE: British philosophers in India

To: Stephen Clark

I was delighted to your account of third Indo-British Convivium. There were two
reasons for this. I know the Indian philosophers that you mentioned. And I have
myself grappled with many of the philosophical issues that you mention, though
as a bit of an outsider, since my professional training is not in philosophy
but in economics. For this reason I am particularly interested in a broader
account of some of the discussions. 

Let me mention one in particular which I would like to hear more about. This is
"the connection between
professional philosophy and the philosophical life as understood in 
Western and Indian tradition". 

You see, I have come into casual contact with many well-known Western
philosophers, and into close contact with a few of them. What struck me was the
fact that their "conduct" was no more exalted than that of ordinary, less
reflective mortals. If anything, on account of a facility of expression, their
capacity for inflicting pain on others was often greater. Further, I was struck
by the passion with which they took certain positions in their published work
which they utterly seemed to ignore in personal life. I have in mind such
transparent inconsistencies of the sort that William James found in Rousseau,
who argued passionately that mothers ought to breast feed their babies
personally, and then willingly allowed his baby to be farmed  out to a wet
nurse.

I do not wish to argue of course, that Indian philosophers do not suffer from
the same tendencies. The arrogance of many of them has been legendary. However,
there is a difference. With models like Aurobindo, Vivekanada and Radhakrishnan
practically as living presences, there is a strong pressure to conform to the
ideal typified by that over used, but none the less telling phrase, "simple
living and high thinking". Further, it is much less easy to separate Indian
philosophy from practice, so there is a constant pressure to unify the two.
Such a pressure is almost entirely absent from the Western milieu.

These are surely important issues, and I not sure that my observations above,
are entirely correct. But if some discussion along these lines took place, I
would love to hear a more detailed account.

I end with a question on a personal note. Jaipur, is *my* city. (I identify
with it more than any other city in India, except perhaps Jodhpur.) If this was
your first trip to the city, what were your impressions ? (In a future note I
plan to add a little comment on the Western fascination with that sandy tract
of land that I love so much.)  

Shailendra Raj Mehta
mehta at mgmt.purdue.edu


 





