>?From mehta at kc235-2.mgmt.purdue.edu 8 1993 Oct U 08:25:00
Date: 8 Oct 1993 08:25:00 U
From: "Mehta, Shailendra" <mehta at kc235-2.mgmt.purdue.edu>
Subject: RE: Panini's grammar and Boolean logic (+Ingerman's article)


I am grateful to Dominik for posting a copy of Ingerman's letter. I was going
to go down and copy it myself but he saved me (and many others I am sure) a bit
of trouble. I have seen this article (letter really) referred to in many
scholarly publications, and it was a surprise to note how modest its scope
really is. Surely Panini deserves a better formal analysis. 

I am neither a grammarian nor a logician by training, though I have dabbled a
little, here and there, so I am not sure that I am competent enough to make the
subsequent statements. But I hope I am provocative with being offensive.

 
I am sure there is a great need to create mirror of Panini in the modern
terminology of logic, in order that his contributions be properly appreciated
outside the small band of grammarians. Surely his appeal to logicians and
computer scientists would be greatly enhanced if he could be fully explained in
their own language. Once this is done, he ought to take his place in the
history of world thought as one of the Titans. Panini was without doubt, as
Saussure among others pointed out, without peer as a linguist in the long
history of the subject. To those who do not mind such categorical statements,
he was the greaterst linguist of all time. But to merely say that is to damn
him with faint praise. Surely he was much more. 

In any case, it seems to me that Panini's grammar must be the most concentrated
form of thought in existence. How much he manages to say in the compass of
40-50 pages must be without parallel. In many ways, if not most, he surpasses
Euclid. Further, the shorthand that he uses with the Siva sutras right in the
beginning, ought *not* to be possible by the simple laws of combinatorics. I
mean, what is the probability that a naturally evolved language can have such a
regular coding scheme ? (Has anyone figured the relevant probabilities out ?)

One way or another, these issues are rather important, and surely deserve
greater attention than that which Ingerman was able to provide, but the best
that I, in my limited exposure, have seen so far, is a four volume rendering BY
a logician. What Panini needs is a good four volume rendering IN logic.

Shailendra Raj Mehta
mehta at mgmt.purdue.edu





 





