From jemhouben at gmail.com  Sun May  9 13:57:45 2021
From: jemhouben at gmail.com (Jan E.M. Houben)
Date: Sun, 9 May 2021 15:57:45 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Comparison of Brahmins (and their cultural context) with
 Nazis (and their cultural context)? both inappropriate and inapt
Message-ID: <CAGCGLoAW-WcCMgMpBc-pDxu8iZDZUXUVN7ANSTMbA3qpV96qGg@mail.gmail.com>

Dear All,
A fascinating symposium on "Greater Magadha" is at present taking place at
Edmonton (Alberta), Canada, and on account of the ongoing epidemic it is
entirely online: the announcement (http://eventleaf.com/GreaterMagadha) is
accessible on several lists.
In a brief presentation and subsequent discussion of his theory at the
beginning of this symposium -- a detailed argument and extensive references
to pieces of evidence for this stimulating and well-researched theory is
found in his *Greater Magadha: Studies in the culture of early India* (Leiden
2007) --   Johannes Bronkhorst referred briefly to his comparison between
Brahmins (and their cultural context) and the German Nazis (and their
cultural context). On this specific reference by Johannes Bronkhorst during
the symposium, I posed a question in the special section set up by the
organizers of the conference: "Questions and answers will be conducted over
a separate service, sli.do."
Since my question, although it received several "upvotes", did not pass the
censorship of the anonymous "moderator" of the online questions -- who
wrote to me "3 days ago (only visible to you) There was no such comparison"
-- it would be useful to pose the question in other fora such as this
Indology List.
Those familiar with the work and especially the *Greater Magadha* book of
Johannes Bronkhorst -- this apparently does not include the anonymous
moderator of the Questions section of the symposium -- will have
immediately recognized that the remark by Johannes Bronkhorst refers to pp.
251-252 of *Greater Magadha* (and similar passages elsewhere), where we
read:

"when it came in contact with cities, Vedic civilization did not like them.
...
It is hard to resist the temptation of a comparison with the Third Reich.
Among the hundreds of paintings brought together in the House of German Art
in Munich, opened by Hitler in 1937, not a single canvas depicted urban and
industrial life (Watson, 2004: 311-312)."

The comparison is both inappropriate and inapt, especially since a very
different analysis of the situation of the community of practicing Brahmins
in ancient India is possible, for instance the one proposed by me in:

