From s.raman at utoronto.ca  Wed May  5 20:23:17 2021
From: s.raman at utoronto.ca (Srilata Raman)
Date: Wed, 5 May 2021 20:23:17 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Religion Compass
Message-ID: <YT1PR01MB4504F53AD98E80438E5BC768FC599@YT1PR01MB4504.CANPRD01.PROD.OUTLOOK.COM>

Dear Colleagues,
I am sharing this call for articles from my colleague Barton Scott with you in the event that there might be some of you who might be interested in contributing to the journal Religion Compass or knowing about the articles which fall within its purview.

with kind regards,
Srilata Raman,
Associate Professor of Hinduism,
University of Toronto
Dear Colleagues,

I want to make sure folks know about all the great writing appearing in Religion Compass<https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/17498171>.  I have been busily curating a set of essays that shed fresh light on various themes in South Asian religions.

In recent months, we have published Banu Subramaniam on COVID and Hindu nationalism, Brian Hatcher on publics and polities, Marko Geslani on the reception of Said, Deonnie Moodie on corporate Hinduism, Sonja Thomas on race and religion, Anand Venkatkrishnan on minority histories of Sanskrit, and the Feminist Critical Hindu Studies Collective (Shreena Gandhi, Harshita Kamath, Sailaja Krishnamurti, Tanisha Ramachandran, and Shana Sippy) on the intersection of caste, gender, race, and religion.

In the coming year, we have essays in the works on Islamic modernism, South Asian 'ulama cultures, Dalit religion, guru studies, religion in Bangladesh, monastic institutions, disease in premodern India, premodern Hindus and Muslims, and Vedanta studies. Please keep an eye out for these pieces and more! If your institution does not subscribe to Religion Compass, I'm very happy to provide PDFs (with the author's permission ).

I also want to extend an invitation to anyone who might have a hankering to write a review essay. Religion Compass specializes in essays that synthesize scholarship on a given topic or question and, ideally, push that question forward in creative and interesting ways. Essays are typically between 3000-5000 words long and are peer reviewed. At the "South Asian Religions" section, we welcome "basic model" review essays that take three or so recent monographs and use them to diagnose the state and future of a field, or to bring an exciting, new, or surprising trend into clearer view. We are also open to manifestos, rants, retrospectives, and more?the sky's the limit. Just no original research; there are other places for that. We do review articles, not research articles. If you're interested, please send a short email pitch to barton.scott at utoronto.ca and I will let you know whether we think your proposal is a fit for us.

We're excited to be part of the vibrant scholarly conversation here about Religion in South Asia.

With best wishes,
Barton

Assistant Professor of Historical Studies and the Study of Religion, University of Toronto
Recent essays: "Mucho Mucho Amor, Mucho Mucho Religion<https://therevealer.org/mucho-mucho-amor-mucho-mucho-religion/>" and "Religion in Lovecraft Country<https://therevealer.org/religion-in-lovecraft-country/>" (The Revealer)

-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20210505/b3f803ff/attachment.htm>

