From mmdesh at umich.edu  Fri Sep  3 16:07:45 2021
From: mmdesh at umich.edu (Madhav Deshpande)
Date: Fri, 3 Sep 2021 09:07:45 -0700
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Dr. T. N. Dharmadhikari
Message-ID: <CAB3-dzcxjVQrUcAtuUz1gc9Tn9W9HRFBFxOoCtrE9RmA7urDUQ@mail.gmail.com>

Dear Colleagues,

     Harry Spier brought to my attention the news that Dr. T.N.
Dharmadhikari passed away this morning. I spoke to my sister in Pune and
she confirmed this news.
     Dharmadhikari along with V.V. Bhide and S.D. Joshi was a college
classmate of my father and so I have known them all as my uncles [kaka]
since my childhood. My father used to call him Dharmaraj, and for a long
time I thought that this was his name.
     Along with my father, Dharmadhikari came to see me off at the Cochin
harbor as I was boarding my ship to go to New York in 1968.
     Dharmadhikari directed the Vaidika Samshodhan Mandal of Pune, and
edited many Vedic texts including the Taittir?ya Sa?hit? and the Maitr?ya??
Sa?hit? and he was among the few modern Indian scholars doing such critical
work with Vedic texts. He did his Ph.D. degree under the guidance of the
late Professor M. A. Mehendale.
     Later, while I was working on the text of Vedavic?ra, I used to see
him once a week to read this text and with his help a number of knotty
readings and passages received a good interpretation.
     For the last several years, Dharmadhikari was not in good health, and
his wife passed away a few years ago. With the passing of Dharmadhikari,
almost an entire generation of eminent Sanskrit scholars of Pune has gone
into history.

Madhav M. Deshpande
Professor Emeritus, Sanskrit and Linguistics
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA
Senior Fellow, Oxford Center for Hindu Studies
Adjunct Professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bangalore, India

[Residence: Campbell, California, USA]
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20210903/4ddbe5d6/attachment.htm>

