From finnian_moore-gerety at brown.edu  Fri Oct 15 18:53:49 2021
From: finnian_moore-gerety at brown.edu (Finnian Moore-Gerety)
Date: Fri, 15 Oct 2021 14:53:49 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Workshop on mantras: call for papers
Message-ID: <59C93A22-4777-4F5E-AEFB-E40DF72626AF@brown.edu>

Dear colleagues?
On behalf of myself and Borayin Larios, I?m delighted to share this call for papers for a 2022 workshop on mantras in Vienna. Please spread the word to colleagues working on mantras, broadly conceived. If you have any questions about the scope or logistics of the workshop, don?t hesitate to reach out to us.

Yours,
Finnian and Borayin
CALL FOR PAPERS

?Mantras: Sound, Materiality, and the Body? || May 12-14, 2022 || Workshop at the Department South Asian, Tibetan and Buddhist Studies, University of Vienna; co-sponsored by the Center for Contemporary South Asia, Brown University.

 For the last three thousand years, mantras in Sanskrit and other Indic languages have profoundly influenced religions in South Asia and around the world. Mantras take many forms, materializing in the sound of the human voice, the silence of thought, the script of writing and diagrams, the space of shrines and temples. In spite of the ubiquity and relevance of mantras, academic scholarship on mantras has proceeded in fits and starts, impelled by research on specific texts, traditions, and contexts?but only rarely through the systematic investigation of mantra as a category in its own right. While some studies of mantra in terms of language, sound, and ritual have gained wide attention, the intersections of mantra and other important scholarly categories?the body, performance, media, materiality, religious authority and identity?are relatively unexplored.

?Mantras: Sound, Materiality, and the Body? will be an international workshop convened at the the Department South Asian, Tibetan and Buddhist Studies at the University of Vienna and co-sponsored by the Center for Contemporary South Asia at Brown University. This workshop aims to further the growth of mantra studies by bringing together scholars from various disciplines?Indology, religious studies, South Asian studies, anthropology, art history?around our shared interest in mantras. We will curate several days of conversation on mantras in all their multiformity, with a focus on sound, materiality, and the body. What is a mantra, exactly? How does the philosophy of mantra relate to practice (and vice versa)? What role does embodiment play in mantra systems? How do mantras mediate between practitioners and their material or spiritual goals? How do mantras change when adapted to new technologies and media? How do mantras shape identities, communities, and traditions? With the aim of grappling with these big questions (and more), we are calling for papers on mantras in premodern and contemporary contexts, in major South Asian religions as well as global spiritualities, and addressing texts, practices, material culture, lived religion, and critical theory. Proposals may be works-in-progress, ideas for future research projects, summations of previous research, and theoretical or methodological interventions. We encourage contributions that span disciplines, consider mantras in vernacular languages and popular traditions, address neglected domains of inquiry, examine mantras using digital and audio-visual resources?and otherwise cultivate synergy between scholars working on mantra with different materials, approaches, and framings. This workshop will offer a forum for exploring future collaborations on mantras and the prospects for securing funding for a multi-year, international research project on mantras.

Submission guidelines

Please submit proposals via email to Finnian Gerety (finnian_moore-gerety at brown.edu <mailto:finnian_moore-gerety at brown.edu>) and Borayin Larios (borayin.larios at univie.ac.at <mailto:borayin.larios at univie.ac.at>). The submission deadline is November 30, 2021 with responses sent out by January 15, 2022. Paper presentations (preferably in English) will be 20 minutes, with 10 additional minutes for discussion and questions.

Each paper proposal should include: name, affiliation of the author; paper abstract in English (not longer than 1,400 characters with spaces or 250 words; a short bibliography (optional, not included in the word limit). We?re planning for an in-person workshop in Vienna. However, we are open to virtual participation for those not able to attend in person. When you submit your abstract, please indicate whether you plan to participate virtually or in-person.

Finnian M.M. Gerety
Visiting Assistant Professor of Religious Studies
[Affiliated] Faculty of Contemplative Studies and Center for Contemporary South Asia
Brown University
www.finniangerety.com <http://finniangerety.com/>








-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20211015/d796610a/attachment.htm>

