From julia.hegewald at uni-bonn.de  Thu Nov  5 16:25:16 2020
From: julia.hegewald at uni-bonn.de (Julia Hegewald)
Date: Thu, 05 Nov 20 17:25:16 +0100
Subject: [INDOLOGY] New book publication: In the Footprints of the Masters
In-Reply-To: <CAGCGLoBR3v96-dj0x7XorgdVAUqL5yG8Hm7W_znAEFfWV_fDOw@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <5CDC1137-4FDA-49E6-B6C0-FA5A17F045F9@uni-bonn.de>

Dear colleagues and friends,

I am delighted to inform you about a new edited book of mine, which focuses on representations of feet, footprints and shoes in Asian, Islamic and Mediterranean art. This has just been published by EB-Verlag in Berlin. It is part of the series 'Studies in Asian Art and Culture' (SAAC). The hard cover book has 956 pages and 420 colour illustrations  (price: EURO 139,-). Please see a brief summary, the table of contents as well as information on how to order the book below. Via the link at the bottom of the mail you can access a flyer introducing the 7 publications on Asian art, published in the SAAC series so far (Go via the SAAC homepage to ?Catalogue of the Published Volumes of the SAAC Series'). 

In the Footsteps of the Masters:

Footprints, Feet and Shoes as Objects of Veneration in Asian, Islamic and Mediterranean Art

 
 Julia A. B. Hegewald (ed.)

 
Book description

Footprints and depictions of feet are amongst the most prevalent religious imagery worldwide. In practically every culture or religion, honour is paid to the imprints or sculptures of feet or to the shoes associated with saintly teachers, enlightened beings or divinities.

This publication presents nineteen specialised chapters by leading international experts. The foot images and shoes studied range from the earliest preserved vestiges from the seventh to the fifth millennium BCE in North Africa to traces from Pharaonic Egypt and Classical Antiquity. Analyses of Hindu, Li?g?yat and Jaina usages and of Buddhist remnants from the earliest Asian beginnings in India via developments in Nepal, Tibet, Thailand and China to distinct expressions in Japan are complemented by chapters focusing on the Islamic world, drawing evidence from Egypt, Arabia and Pakistan and illustrating continuity in contemporary art works.
 
The foot images, which show a combination of iconic and symbolic forms, are striking in that they signify both absence and presence, creating a link between enlightened beings and humans.




Table of Contents

Preface

 
Foreword

 
Chapter 1

Introduction: Footprints, Sculpted Feet and Shoes in the Art of Asia and the Islamic and Mediterranean Worlds

Julia A. B. Hegewald

 
Chapter 2 

?Real Presence? in Liminal Areas: Images of Feet and Footprints in Third Millennium Egypt and their Prehistoric Precursors

Ludwig Morenz, David Sabel and Frank F?rster

 
Chapter 3

?Footprints? and Sculpted Feet: Enduring Marks of Human Presence and Divine Epiphany in Classical Antiquity

Ralf Krumeich 

 
Chapter 4

