From ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK  Fri Mar 17 16:34:36 2006
From: ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK (Dominik Wujastyk)
Date: Fri, 17 Mar 06 16:34:36 +0000
Subject: Position at the Austrian Academy of Sciences (fwd)
Message-ID: <161227077672.23782.9910117575692521345.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>


    ?sterreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften

The Austrian Academy of Sciences, Austria's leading institution for 
non-university scientific research, invites applications for the fixed 
term position of

Director of the Institute for the Cultural and Intellectual History of 
Asia in Vienna, Austria. The position will be available from 1 January 
2007.

The Institute for the Cultural and Intellectual History of Asia is a 
Research Institute of the Austrian Academy of Sciences and currently has 
seven research fellows. The Institute's research focus is the study of the 
cultures of Asia. The results of these studies aim to broaden the 
knowledge of Asia-specific fields and promote the understanding of the 
diverse developments, contacts and mutual influences of the cultures of 
Asia.

Acquirement of outside research funding as well as international 
cooperation is required for the long term maintenance and further growth 
of the Institute. The initial appointment is fixed term for a period of 
six years, full-time, employed directly by the Austrian Academy of 
Sciences. It is required that the director lives in or will move to Vienna 
or its vicinity. It is not required that the candidate speaks German, 
although a reading ability and his willingness to learn German are of 
advantage.

The Academy expects the applicant to have or show evidence of:

?         The equivalent to a German "Habilitation" (or comparable
 	  scholarly research) in either Indology or Buddhist Studies

?         Publications on and experience in critical text work and
 	  historical-critical interpretation

?         An outstanding publications record, especially in international
 	  journals

?         Documented long term experience in leadership of research groups
 	  and of international projects

?         International research experience or experience at a prominent
 	  research institution comparable to the Austrian Academy of Sciences

?         Good knowledge of the international scholarly community

?         Strong interpersonal and communication skills, ability to work
 	  with a team, diplomacy and leadership skills, and the ability to oversee
 	  projects and working teams

?         Demonstrated strong organizational skills

?         Experience in the acquirement of outside funding

The Austrian Academy of Sciences is interested in increasing the number of 
qualified women among its employees, especially in directorial positions, 
and therefore expressly encourages women to apply.

Applications should be made in the form of a detailed CV and publication 
list, a cover letter with a statement of research interests, and 
off-prints of the applicant's three most important publications. They 
should be directed to:

Aktuarin der philosophisch-historischen Klasse
Ms. Lisbeth Triska
?sterreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften
Dr. Ignaz Seipel-Platz 2
A-1010 Wien
Austria.



Further information about the Academy and the Institute can be found at 
the Academy's home page: http://www.oeaw.ac.at  or that of the Institute: 
http://www.oeaw.ac.at/ias/index.html

Submission deadline: 31 May 2006




