From pf at CIX.CO.UK  Fri Mar 17 11:42:00 2006
From: pf at CIX.CO.UK (pf)
Date: Fri, 17 Mar 06 11:42:00 +0000
Subject: BOOK LAUNCH (NEW SERIES) , SOAS, THURSDAY MARCH 23
Message-ID: <161227077670.23782.11025848814221642781.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Collegues and Friends,

The Centre of Jaina Studies requests the pleasure of your company for the 
launch of the first volume of the new Routledge Advances in Jaina Studies 
series, Studies in Jaina History and Culture: Disputes and Dialogues  
Edited by Peter Fl?gel, School of Oriental and African Studies, University 
of London, UK.  

The series will be inaugurated before the Annual Jain Lecture of the SOAS 
Centre of Jaina Studies by Professor Johannes Bronkhorst of the University 
of Lausanne on 'Jainism, window on early India', at the Brunei Gallery 
Lecture Theatre, London School of Oriental and African Studies, Russell 
Square, London WC1, Thursday, March 23, 6pm. .

The launch and lecture are followed by a reception in the Brunei Gallery 
Cafe.

No RSVP. 

Inquiries: 

Sara Hamza 
SOAS Centres Office
sh87 at soas.ac.uk



Routledge Advances in Jaina Studies

Series editor: Peter Fl?gel, School of Oriental and African Studies, 
University of London, UK 

Jaina Studies have become an important part of the Study of Religion. This 
series provides a medium for regular scholarly exchange across 
disciplinary boundaries. It will include edited volumes and monographs on 
Jainism and the Jains.

Vol. I

Studies in Jaina History and Culture: Disputes and Dialogues  
Edited by Peter Fl?gel, School of Oriental and African Studies, University 
of London, UK  

Studies in Jaina History and Culture breaks new ground by investigating 
the doctrinal differences and debates amongst the Jains rather than 
presenting Jainism as a seamless whole whose doctrinal core has remained 
virtually unchanged throughout its long history. The focus of the book is 
the discourse concerning orthodoxy and heresy in the Jaina tradition, the 
question of omniscience and Jaina logic, role models for women and female 
identity, Jaina schools and sects, religious property, law and ethics. The 
internal diversity of the Jaina tradition and Jain techniques of living 
with diversity are explored from an interdisciplinary point of view by 
fifteen leading scholars in Jaina studies. The contributors focus on the 
principal social units of the tradition: the schools, movements, sects and 
orders, rather than Jain religious culture in abstract.  The book provides 
a representative snapshot of the current state of Jaina studies that will 
interest students and academics involved in the study of religion or South 
Asian cultures.  

Contents Part 1: Orthodoxy and Heresy  
1. Adda or the Oldest Extant Dispute between Jains and Heretics (Suyagada 
2,6) William Bollee  2. The Later Fortunes of Jamali Paul Dundas  3. The 
Dating of the Jaina Councils: Do Scholarly Presentations Reflect the 
Traditional Sources? Royce Wiles
Part 2: The Question of Omniscience and Jaina Logic  
4. The Jain-Mimamsa Debate on Omniscience Olle Qvarnstorm  5. Why must 
there be an Omniscient in Jainism? Sin Fujinaga  6. Implications of the 
Buddhist-Jaina Dispute over the Fallacious Example in Nyaya-Bindu and 
Nyayavatara-Vivrti Piotr Balcerowicz  Part 3: Role Models for Women and 
Female Identity  7. Restrictions and Protection: Female Jain Renouncers 
Sherry E. Fohr  8. Thinking Collectively about Jain Satis: The Uses of 
Jain Sati Name Lists M. Whitney Kelting  9. Religious Practice and the 
Creation of Personhood among Svetambar Murtipujak Jain Women in Jaipur 
Josephine Reynell  
Part 4: Sectarian Movements  10. Rethinking Religious Authority: A 
Perspective on the Followers of Srimad Rajacandra Emma Salter  11. A 
Fifteenth Century Digambar Mystic and his Contemporary Followers: Taran 
Taran Svami and the Taran Svami Panth John E. Cort  12. Demographic Trends 
in Jaina Monasticism  Peter Fl?gel  
Part 5: Property, Law and Ethics  13. Architectural, Sculptural and 
Religious Change: A New Interpretation of the Jaina Temples at Khajuraho 
Julia A. B. Hegewald  14. Jaina Law as an Unofficial Legal System Werner 
Menski  15. Ahimsa and Compassion in Jainism Kristi L. Wiley  Index  

March 2006: 234x156: 512pp Hb: 0-415-36099-4: ?95.00 launch prize: ?66.50 


Forthcoming:

Vol II

History, Scripture and Controversy in a Medieval Jain Sect, by Paul 
Dundas, University of Edinburgh, UK 

The subject of this fine book is the history and intellectual activity of 
the medieval Svetambara Jain disciplinary order, the Tapa Gaccha. The 
overall theme of this book is the consolidation from the thirteenth 
century by the Tapa Gaccha of its identity as the dominant Svetambara Jain 
disciplinary order. Thanks to the author?s exceptional knowledge of the 
field, the topic is shown in practice to be central to our understanding 
of many of the key questions scholars have been asking about the history 
and development, not just of Jainism, but of South Asian religious 
traditions in general, including the way in which traditions establish and 
maintain their authority in relation to texts, the relationship between 
text, commentary and tradition, attitudes to female religiosity, and 
tensions both within and between sects.  Paul Dundas is Senior Lecturer in 
Sanskrit at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland. His previous book, The 
Jains, is also available from Routledge.  December 2006: 234x156: 256pp 
Hb: 0-415-37611-4: ?65.00 




