From wedemeyer at UCHICAGO.EDU  Wed Dec 13 21:28:20 2006
From: wedemeyer at UCHICAGO.EDU (Christian K. Wedemeyer)
Date: Wed, 13 Dec 06 21:28:20 +0000
Subject: The Buddha and the Upanishads
Message-ID: <161227078926.23782.12614081890234854596.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Friends (including, I hope, Prof. Gombrich),

Once again, I seem to have been misconstrued as arguing a much stronger position than I meant 
to. My general penchant for enthusiastically arguing unpopular hypotheses may be partially to 
blame; or perhaps it is my unfortunate tendency to intemperence of expression. However it may 
be, this exchange has certainly shaken my naive, youthful sense that--as "Nagasena" put it (in the 
translation of "Henry Clarke Warren")--"when the wise converse, whether they become entangled 
by their opponents' arguments or whether they extricate themselves, whether they or their 
opponents convicted of error, whether their own superiority or that of their opponents is 
established, nothing in all this can make them angry." Apparently, the wise can become angry and 
to the extent that I am responsible for that, I am sorry.

It was not at all my intention to argue that Richard Gombrich is a "crotchety old man with 
outmoded notions." Indeed, for the record, I am a great fan of "Richard Gombrich" (even, one 
might say, of Richard Gombrich himself!), I have indeed read many (though unfortunately not all) 
of his published writings (some even that I have gone to great lengths to track down in obscure 
Festschriften), and I do assign them in my classes, where I and my students read them to great 
profit.

That said, a few comments are in order on Prof. Gombrich's concerns:

>1.The truth of empirical statements
>(whether made inside or outside academia) can however never be
>finally established. There is a conference going on in Tehran about
>whether the holocaust occurred. The evidence for it is incomparably
>stronger than that for the existence of Buddhaghosa, let alone the
>Buddha. But evidence does not speak for itself; it requires
>interpretation, and that in turn requires the use of reason and
>judgment, and the willingness to follow where they lead. There's none
>so blind as those who will not see.

That the invocation of the example of "Holocaust deniers" in this context is inflammatory should 
go without saying. That is a straw man: no one is claiming the Holocaust didn't happen and no 
one has claimed that we can only make assertions of things of which we have absolute certainty. I 
would very much concur with Gombrich that the evidence for the Holocaust is stronger than that 
for either Buddhaghosa or Buddha. However (and I'm quite surprised to discover that we may 
differ somewhat here), I personally think that this has important consequences for how we speak, 
write, and reason about those topics. We should be more or less circumspect, depending on how 
solid our evidence is. By the time we get back to centuries before the putative time of Christ, I feel, 
that, given the thin evidentiary record, our circumspection should be profound indeed. Note that 
"circumspection" is not in fact tantamount to "not seeing." It is, as one would expect, "looking 
around."

>	This basic epistemology has implications for pedagogy. We can tell
>our students that we cannot know anything about the Buddha, and that
>is true if one means "know with 100% certainty", but it is also
>banal. Such information as the probable date of the oldest extant
>manuscript is well worth teaching.  But if one leaves it there, isn't
>one selling them short? Why should our subject survive if all we tell
>them about what they really want to know is that it is unknowable?

With all due respect, if what my students really want to know about is the Buddha (rather than, 
say, "the Buddha") they are barking up the wrong tree and should study something else or 
somewhere else (Oxford, perhaps?!).  "Our subject" (sorry, can't resist the scare quotes) is perfectly 
entitled to survive, regardless of what misguided students may or may not want to know. Buddhist 
Studies is not Buddhist Theology that seeks to know about "the Buddha" and what he did or didn't 
