From jpo at UTS.CC.UTEXAS.EDU  Sun Mar  8 14:28:20 2009
From: jpo at UTS.CC.UTEXAS.EDU (Patrick Olivelle)
Date: Sun, 08 Mar 09 08:28:20 -0600
Subject: Forwarded Announcement
In-Reply-To: <1212045754-5579.00013.00009-smmsdV2.1.6@smtp.bgsu.edu>
Message-ID: <161227085274.23782.4992848154871144019.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Greetings to All. I am attaching a message that the organizers wanted 
me to broadcast. It is a conference on Asian religion and philosophy 
to be held in St. Petersburg -- in Februuary 2010 -- if you like the 
cold!! the organizer is Sergey Pakhomov <sarpati at gmail.com>

Thanks.

Patrick

***************

SAINT-PETERSBURG STATE UNIVERSITY
FACULTY OF PHILOSOPHY AND POLITICAL STUDIES
DEPARTMENT OF EASTERN PHILOSOPHY AND CULTURE
PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY OF SAINT-PETERSBURG

6th International Scientific Conference of Philosophy, Religion and 
Culture of Asian Countries (Torchinov readings)
IDEALS - NORMS - VALUES

CALL FOR PAPERS

The SIXTH annual international scientific conference named in honor 
of Evgeny Torchinov (1956 - 2003), an outstanding Russian researcher 
of Asian cultures and methods of religions, is going to be held at 
the Faculty of Philosophy and Political Studies of the 
Saint-Petersburg State University (Russia) 3 - 6th February, 2010.
The central focus of issues at the Readings this time will be 
concentrated on investigations of ideals, norms and values of Eastern 
cultures.
POSSIBLE THEMES TO BE DISCUSSED:
o	Ideals of Asian religious traditions
o	Notions of values, ideals and norms in Asian systems of philosophy
o	Ideal society and ideal man at the East
o	System of values in Asian cultures
o	Oriental cultures in Western countries: exotics or norm?
o	Western values and norms in Asian countries: adoption and a rejection
o	Axiological imperatives in the era of the globalization: a 
contribution of the East
o	Understanding the spiritual values of Asian cultures in 
Russia and in countries of the West
o	Reflection of ideals of Asian traditions in literature and art
o	Systems of norms and the ideal of an individual in Asian traditions
o	Asian psycho technologies and norms of ordinary consciousness
Sections of the conference will be formed on the basis of 
applications. The names of expected sections and announced 
rubricating might vary.
As usual, Torchinov conference will strive for creating and keeping a 
multidisciplinary space for fruitful change of ideas between 
specialists studying different types, images and categories of Asian 
cultures; will tend to form new scientific approaches and methods in 
the field of Oriental studies; to elaborate theories and philosophy 
of Oriental investigations.
Scholars and researchers of different aspects of philosophy, religion 
and culture of Asia are invited to take part in the conference. Also 
we invite philosophers, historians, anthropologists, psychologists 
and specialists in religious studies investigating Eastern range of 
issues.
An application for the participation should be filled in electronic 
format at the conference's site which address is following: 
http://torchinov.ru/ru/reg_form/  There is a possibility for a 
participation in the conference without publication of your paper in 
the book of collected articles. Extramural participation isn't 
supposed.
Dead-line of applications for non-residents of Russia is September 13, 2009.
Besides that Org. committee accepts applications for the organization 
of round tables, presentations, proposals for organizations of 
cultural program till the end of December, 2009
Working languages of the conference are Russian and English.

By the beginning of conference, we shall have planned to publish and 
distribute among the authors the CDs with summaries and full texts of 
papers in format of pdf. Publication of the collection on paper is 
planned after the conference, during 2010. A paper with size not more 
than 10.000-15.000 signs (in Word statistics), including gaps and 
footnotes must be sent for the publication. When designing the 
article, you must use as a pattern the technical example of execution 
of the text, which is on the site of the conference. Materials must 
be sent for the publication till September 13, 2009.
Org. fee for participants not from Russia and from countries of CIS 
is 30 euro. This fee is to be paid on the day of the registration, 
i.e. the 1st day of the conference.
All questions are welcome by e-mail: info at torchinov.ru/ Additional 
information about the conference is also at our site, see: 
http://torchinov.ru/

Organizational committee:

  Dr. Yury Solonin (President)
P. Olivelle, PhD, professor (Univ. of Texas, Austin, USA)
J. Mc-Rae, PhD, professor (Komazawa Univ., Tokyo, Japan)
R. Gimello, Ph D, professor (Univ. of Notre Dame, Indiana, USA)
Dr. Victor Petrenko
Dr. Alexander Boronoev
Dr. Prof. Marina Kravtsova
Dr. Prof. Anatoly Kolesnikov
Dr. Vladimir Emelyanov
Dr. Cyril Solonin
Dr. Tigran Tumanyan
Dr. Sergey Pakhomov (general coordinator)

Our contacts:
Post address: 199034, Russia, Saint-Petersburg, Vasilievsky ostrov, 
Mendeleevskaya liniya, 5, Faculty of Philosophy, Department of 
Eastern Philosophy and Culture, room 110.
Tel.: 7-812-328-9421 (additional 1852).
E-mail: info at torchinov.ru
Site: http://torchinov.ru




