From slindqui at MAIL.SMU.EDU  Sun Apr 19 00:33:08 2009
From: slindqui at MAIL.SMU.EDU (Lindquist, Steven)
Date: Sat, 18 Apr 09 19:33:08 -0500
Subject: Zeitschriften der DMG digital
In-Reply-To: <alpine.WNT.2.00.0904182003120.7516@Caraka>
Message-ID: <161227085904.23782.17607953792595493271.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

> I use a Mac, but this must be the same or very similar on a PC.  I can
> right-click on each page and save each page as an image file.  Then, I can
> print each page separately from there (and most image programs can
> automatically scale the image to your paper size).

>Yes, I tried this, but what got saved on the disk was the html wrapper,
>without the digital image of the page.  But since you've had success,
>there must be some way round it on a PC (winXP) too.

What I get is the image only (nothing of the wrapper, etc.).  Perhaps this is an issue of where you are clicking to save? (I am clicking on the center of the image and saving from there). There certainly must be a way around the problem you are having.  Has anyone else out there with a PC got this to work?

> Of course, this is cumbersome (but not obnoxiously so, especially if you have
> a fast internet connection).  For someone like me who doesn't have easy
> access to this journal (only through inter-library loan or a 4-5 hour drive),
> I think this free resource is fabulous and it strikes me as completely
> reasonable that they do not allow downloads.

>Why is it reasonable to allow the above process but not a single download
>of per-article PDFs?  Either they are releasing these materials or they
>are not.  Since they are (and it's wonderful and we're all incredibly
>grateful), then it would be kind of them to serve the needs of working
>scholars more appropriately.  Like almost all other online journals, or
>JSTOR, for example.

But, as you know, how that information is released determines the value of the issues already printed and those that may be printed.

The setup of this webpage retains a value for the print editions (past and future), but is "completely free" to the end user who reads from the online version.  By not making PDFs available for download, there is still a value for the past/future print editions (new subscriptions, people/libraries who own previous issues, and so on).  Going through a mildly annoying process to print an article here or there should not significantly hurt their financial bottom line.  Giving everything away via PDF would.

JSTOR, on the other hand, is not free at all: an incredible amount of money changes hands with JSTOR (libraries pay very large fees for JSTOR subscriptions; JSTOR, in turn, pays individual journals a fee per download).  In fact, many journals actually make money (rather than lose it through lost subscriptions) by making an agreement with JSTOR.

Best,

Steven




