From kauzeya at GMAIL.COM  Tue Jun  9 08:20:44 2009
From: kauzeya at GMAIL.COM (Jonathan Silk)
Date: Tue, 09 Jun 09 10:20:44 +0200
Subject: Post-doc and/or PhD positions in Buddhist Studies,              Leiden University
Message-ID: <161227086748.23782.15725297755144454791.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Two positions: *PhD and/or Post-Doc* (9-104)

         Faculty of Humanities, Institute for Area Studies
The Leiden Institute for Area Studies (LIAS) is responsible for researchers
who are active in the fields of relations with East, South and Central and
Southeast Asia and the Middle East. The Institute is divided into a School
for Asian Studies and a School for Middle Eastern Studies. A
multidisciplinary approach which comprises both the modern and the
traditional periods is typical for the teaching and research within this
Institute, whereby the knowledge of the source language is essential. The
research of the approximately 75 staff members (including 20 professors)
brings together the study of such subjects as history, law, economy,
literature, religion and philology of the areas mentioned, both in the
present day and in ancient times.
Starting September 2009 (or later if necessary) the Leiden Institute for
Area Studies has two full time (38 hrs) vacancies, available as 4 year PhD
positions and/or 3 year Post-Doctoral fellowships.

         Project description
         Applicants should work in the study of Buddhism. In principle any
sub-field is possible, but preference will be given to those
         those working on pre-modern topics, and South Asia in particular.

Applicants for a *PhD position*
        Tasks:
-    The writing of a PhD dissertation on a topic to be agreed with the
promotor;
-    publishing research results in the form of (an) article(s) and/or
books;
-    presenting papers at (international) conferences;
-    participation in local research meetings and PhD teaching;
-    organizing roundtable meetings and conferences in the framework of the
research project.

       Requirements:
-    an MA, M.Phil or equivalent degree in a relevant field;
-    research knowledge of the language(s) necessary for the project;
-    fluency in English (spoken and written) and competence in other
relevant modern languages;
-    ability to work independently.


*Post-Doctoral Fellowship* applicants should  have a demonstrably excellent
academic track record in Buddhist Studies, and hold a PhD in Buddhist
Studies, or its equivalent. They should have an excellent command of English
and be prepared to present their research results in English. Finally we
expect applicants to be willing and able to teach a small number of courses
on topics within their area of specialization.

Conditions of employment
The position of the Postdoctoral fellow is temporary, max. three years with
a full-time appointment (38 hours per week). The position of PhD-fellow
(?promovendus?) is temporary, max. four years with a full-time appointment,
and with an initial 18-month trial period.

The salary is determined in accordance with the current scales as set out in
the collective labor agreement for the Dutch universities (CAO):
Postdoctoral fellow: min. ? 2.379, max. ? 4.374
PhD fellow: min. ? 2.042 - max. ? 2.612

More information
For more information about the two positions please contact Prof. dr. J.A
Silk, tel. +31-71-5272510, email j.a.silk at hum.leidenuniv.nl

Application
*PhD  candidates* please send your application (in English), including:
?    a cover letter stating your motivation for this position,
?    a CV
?    copies of your academic transcripts (or Dutch cijferlijst),
?    a writing sample (such as your MA thesis), and
?    two references.

 *Post-doc candidates* please send your application (in English), including:
?    a cover letter stating your motivation for this position,
?    a CV,
?    copies of your academic transcripts,
?    a printed copy of your PhD thesis and other relevant publications, and
?    three references.
Please send your application indicating the application number (9-104) to
the address below before the deadline of 15 July 2009:

Faculteit der Geesteswetenschappen afdeling Personeel en Organisatie
t.a.v. mw. M. Bipat, kamer 2.41
Postbus 9515
2300 RA LEIDEN

Applicants are encouraged to send an additional electronic copy of the
application package to:
vacature at hum.leidenuniv.nl

********************

Please make know the above to anyone who might be interested, and feel free
to post it in other fora. Thank you!


-- 
J. Silk
Instituut Kern / Universiteit Leiden
Postbus 9515
2300 RA Leiden
Netherlands




