Vital Statistics
At 01:21 1980-01-04 +0000, Bharat Gupt wrote:
linked
regional
the regions
variety.
these
power and
Folk wisdom has it short-cuts should be avoided - as they usually turn out
to be long-cuts. I do apologize for creating one. Let me then reformulate my
earlier statement. <<Historically, each of the components of this
continuum... was linked in its development to a local center of political
power; each of such centers usually in control of a regional or
trans-regional market.>>
Looking at what happens at present, one may assume that also in the past
entering any kind of transaction in multilingual/multicultural millieu
presupposed ability to negotiate for and effectively use a proper (that
means:
situation-specific) instrument of communication - social dialect,
territorial dialect, other language, link language. In their colloquial
forms the dialects of the Hindi linguistic area are end-results of such
processes of negotiation and adjustment. If this is so, then the main
characteristics of the colloquial dialects should mirror  the language
habits of the possessors of  the largest number of important transactions,
i.e. the most influential groups of local organizers of production and trade
(land-owners. merchant guilds, court).
Some rivalries for the rights to such transactions may have been presented
in the guise of language/religion conflicts. I would be very much grateful
for the List Members' comments on that. Any early historical examples?
a "Hindi
by English
bhaas.aas.
No one, I believe, denies the ability of Khari-Boli to function as a
link-language. But expressions like: "...who has an interest in denying the
unity of Hindi..." suggest that a much greater future might be planned for it.
With regards,
Artur Karp
University of Warsaw
Poland
P.S. According to recent rumors that have reached this provincial town of
Warsaw, not one, but three new States are being planned to be created:
Chattisgarh, Uttarkhand and Jharkhand. Any truth in it?
A.K.
Zagraj mecz z Fibakiem - www.aukcje-online.pl
Platforma - najwiekszy serwis aukcji internetowych w Polsce.
