Vedic accent in taittiriya samhita
Bharat Gupta has given a good description of the musicalized recitation of
the TS and the microtonal gaps between different notes.  There is no doubt
that the current recitation of the TS, especially in south India, is far
more musicalized, as compared to the recitation of the same Samhita in the
region of Maharashtra, where the musical distances between Udaatta,
Anudaatta, and Svarita are much smaller.  Historically, it seems to me
that a certain distinction must be made between the musicalized renderings
of the Vedic accents, and the Vedic accents as described by Panini and
Praatizaakhyas.  Particularly, in the case of Panini, his description of
accents is not limited to Vedic, but the same accent rules apply to all of
Sanskrit derived by his grammatical system, and even contemporary dialects
of spoken Sanskrit differed in regional accents (cf. P's rule: udak ca
vipaaza.h).  This being the case, it is more reasonable to assume that the
Accents of Sanskrit (including Vedic and Bhaazaa) were, by Panini's time,
not musicalized as yet, except of course in the case of the Saamaveda.
The high and low distinctions of accent/pitch are only relative highs and
lows, while the default middle range itself fluctuated from person to
person.  This is why Patanjali and the Praatizaakhyas describe high and
low accents not in any absolute terms, i.e. by their exact correlation to
any specific musical distances, but they say that these high and low
distinctions apply within a given register (samaanayame) of a given
person, and this register itself may differ from person to person.
        It is indeed the case that Saamavedic Zik.saas like that of
Naarada relate different accents to notes of a musical scale.  However,
this correlation occurred most likely in the Saaman traditions, and not in
other traditions.  Even the Naaradazik.saa (1.3) says that the Udaatta and
Anudaatta differ only by one note in the RV recitation, they differ by two
notes in the recitation of the (more musical?) Gaathaas, and they differ
by three notes in the Saaman recitation.  Thus, the RV (and possibly the
YV and AV accents as well) were originally not musicalized at all.
However, with the loss of accents in the classical language, the
musicalization of Vedic recitation steadily progressed over time.
                                Madhav Deshpande
On Sat, 22 Jan 2000, Bharat Gupt wrote:
