AIT, NEW genetic evidence
On Sun, 9 Jan 2000, Dr. Nupam Mahajan wrote:
The work is very interesting, but the following points need to be noted: -
1. `Hindi Speakers' includes many Dravidoid Dalits in the North. Perhaps
some Black Untouchables were included in this survey ?
2. All the results of the papers can be explained in terms of the Semitic
factor, which is present in the North as a substratum to Indo-Aryan
genes, and in the South as a superstratum upon Africoid genes.
  This is exactly the time when the original Caucasoid stock split into
Semitic and Indo-European sub-stocks, an event which occurred ca. 10,000
BP in the Middle East. The genes they have analysed are essentially
Semitic genes, which they choose to label `Proto-Caucasoid', `Caucasoid'
in their view being restricted to Indo-Europeans. They have apparently not
analysed the Africoid sub-stratum of the Semitic `Proto-Caucasoid' stock.
Sanskrit texts record numerous terms based on `dasi' which indicates
significant concubinage of pre-Indo-European Semitic and Dravidoid women
in Indo-Aryan households. This custom continues in modern rural regions,
eg. the `deva-dasi' cults documented by Human Rights Watch -
http://www.hrw.org/hrw/reports/1999/india/India994-09.htm
Naturally, the `Aryan' offspring of such unions would inherit the mt DNA
which has been analysed, displaying Semitic or Mulatto ancestry. All
maternal trace of such an `Aryan invasion' would of course have been wiped
out. A fact confirmed by the two excellent papers cited by Dr N. Mahajan.
  The papers merely confirm what many researchers have been claiming for
long: that the `pure Vedic Aryan' race has been submerged in the Semitic
gene-pool in the North, and in the Africoid gene-pool in the South.
Research continues to prove that the modern-day `Indo-Aryans' are not the
legendary descendants of Aryan invaders, but in fact mixed-race
descendants of Aryan men and Semitic/Dravidoid women. The 2 papers suggest
something the more extreme nationalists should think about.
Some contribution of Semitic stock to Dravidoid populations is to be
expected (corroborated by Mesopotamian-influenced art work found in the
IVC), but the essential base stock of Dravidians is Africoid, as Dr.
Manansala has pointed out. The Adi-Dravidas would naturally display a
higher degree of genetic affiliation with Africa and Australia.
However, a small `Elamite' genetic contribution is to be expected in non
Adi-Dravidas.
This indicates an equal contribution of Semitic stock to the North
and the South.
Once again, the bulk of Dravidoids are of Africoid stock, although in
certain regions Semitic genes predominate. That they choose to label this
Semitic stock as `proto-caucasoid' is slightly misleading.
Samar
