Pali (details)
NOW, the details:
(Witzel:) This takes a very narrow view of a much larger complex of data.
(Cousins)
Common knowledge: even the old  GEIGER/PISCHEL  ETC ETC WILL DO; (and cf.
Patanjali at c.150 BCE.):
v instead of b
r instead of l;
  kh/ch,   cca/tiya, etc etc.
nom. masc. -o instead of -e
to quote only the most hackneyed ones; etc etc.
more from my office... on Friday(?)
Of course, as our oldest written materials. And note the "rough" map, which
implies discussion of many individual items.  All this is not so prima
facie as it may sound in such summaries.
Cousins:
What about the NW, and Delhi???
To countercheck the W and E. inscriptions (plus the ones in Drav. territory).
In addition, there  has been a long discussion on Asoka's chancellary
language and its features, as compared to Maagadhii and other dialects...
Items of the administration dialect can pop up anywhere in the local
transpositions/translations made from Afghanistan to S. India.
Conservative? -- He stresses Sanskritization and Koine character of Pali
throughout
The point rather is:  Which BASIC features of Pali fit which local dialects?
Quoting purely from memory (maybe more details on Friday from my office), I
point to early, post_Asokan local  MIA inscriptions in the western areas
(some typical ones conveniently collected by DC Sircar, Selected
inscriptions)  which easily show typical western features, such as  nom -o
instead of eastern -e.
(Where does Pali have such eastern forms <again from memory> as in the
Lumbini  words:  hide Buddhe jaate??)  And Lumbini is roughly north of
Benares... not north of Patna ...
The western features can then be compared to early post-Asokan
inscriptional eastern ones:
Where exactly is  the Boundary? (see below).
We need to compare a lot of data from early MIA inscriptions (NW, C, E, W,
S, see above) not just Orissa, and from a range of centuries if need be:
The exact E/W dialect  boundary line is to be determined. This is probably
a POINT (the only one?)  WHERE WE CAN AGREE.  But on the basis of hard
(early inscriptional) evidence. Unfortunately little edited so far (see
again  Intro to OvH Ueberblick). -- The details on Friday.
Orissa, by the way, seems to represent, in my private estimation, a special
case (even in medieval times):  while it has an eastern form of MIA, it
also has some curiously western features, for example on of Patanjali's
(introd.) examples for 'knife" (daatra?)  <or was it hammati 'to go'?> a
word that he quotes for Saurastra! -- I have seen the same in the middle
ages: around 500 AD, strong cultural western influences  via the Nagpur
area, -- later ,superimposition of northern/Bengali features.  This does
not solves things for Asokan times, but points to caution that should be
exercised.
This is well known, --  as far as individual features are concerned. See above.
To quote r/l is  not the best  example, (though the east likes l better ,
type   raajaa = laaja) -- because of the unstable characteristics of this
sound: it changes back and forth within the Vedic texts (see my paper in
Zimbun 1991)  and continued to do so (Lumbini <-devii> modern Rummin-dei).
O.v.Hinueber has a note in Ueberblick  on this point as well, somewhat
along these lines. (( The Sopara example with l > r could easily be due to
a mechanic, hypercorrect  change from  eastern dialect -l- to more typical
western -r- , whatever the local dialect actually had. -- Must take a look
at it. ))
Finally, this whole question has some connection with another one - a can
of worms I better do not open: the relationship between the Buddha's
eastern Koine-type dialect, the transpositions made from Buddha's dialect
into Pali (and other early MIA dialects/early half-Prakritic Buddh. Skt.),
early Maagadhii, and  Asoka's chancellary dialect.....
