considered; two to four years related experience and/or training in
Information Science; or equivalent combination of education and experience.
 Prior program management experience highly desirable.  Familiarity with
South Asian languages, culture, history, and geography.  Knowledge of
computers, data structures, and electronic environments and systems
necessary.  Experience with distributed management of electronic components
and familiarity with issues attending digital libraries.
LANGUAGE SKILLS
Exemplary communication skills, written and oral. Foreign language
abilities (South Asian) and cultural knowledge desired.  Ability to
initiate, lead, and team-build.  Demonstrated ability to work with diverse
groups of information professionals.  Ability to read, analyze, and
interpret technical journals, reports, financial reports, and legal
documents.  Ability to respond to common inquiries from customers,
regulatory agencies, or members of the business community.  Ability to
write speeches or articles for publication that conform to prescribed style
and format.  Ability to effectively present information to top management,
public groups, and/or boards of directors.
COMPUTER/TECHNICAL/ MATHEMATICAL SKILLS
Proficient computer knowledge working with computer application programs,
such as Word for Windows, Excel, Microsoft Office 97, electronic mail,
etc.; ability to develop web documents; and working knowledge of  HTML,
SGML, and similar concepts.  Knowledge of South Asia and its culture,
history, and geography.  Understanding of scholarly research and
bibliographic tools, especially global publishing and international
scholarship.  Ability to apply and understand general financial procedures
and concepts such as budgets, financial statements, collections, cost and
effect, etc.
Salary:  Minimum $32,900 per annum, commensurate with experience.
Closing Date:  Applications will be accepted until this position is filled.
Interested applicants should submit a letter of application and resume to:
Human Resources
Center For Research Libraries
6050 South Kenwood Ave.
Chicago, IL  60637
