AIT, NEW genetic evidence
Is this a complete reversal of the majority academic opinion about
the languages in IVC? Is this hinting that the IE home is India?
Archaeologists have not bought that theory.
It is not the horse itself, but the horse religion is of interest to
IVC  culture. No horse in 1000s of IVC seals! After 1700 B.C.,
Prof. Witzel thinks Dravidians could have introduced horse into
India (EJVS, 1999)  first, but not the chariots. Also, how to
explain dravidian elements (retroflexion, syntax, words etc.,) in
North India?
"Elite dominance" strategm of the IA expansion in India starting
from around 1500 BCE is explained in academic publications widely.
Some of them in Indology archives, pointers given in earlier
mail.
Regards,
N. Ganesan
<<<
Atleast Large scale genocide without gunpowder and technology is ruled
out by genetics and by common sense. Maybe the IA speakers had armies
of teachers who were hell bent on teaching the language they spoke to
a population which was equally keen to forget other languages. The
class rooms would have student to teacher ratios of a million to one.
I may be exagerating but unfortunately these are the only kinds of
scenarios consistant with the old perspective.
In contrast if we can think of India being multilingual with a small
IE component since the earliest times. Then the language which
pevailed would be that of the group which could matain a sustained
population explosion with the help of agriculture. IA would then
evolve from IE under the influence of other language groups and become
the language of the majority. Other language groups would also be
influenced by the IA language due to sheer size and inertia. Dravidian
languages could have spread by a similar mechanism at a later time
into the southern regions of the IVC but would have less influence in
the north with its established linguistic inertia and also being
farther from the center of spread. By the same token IA would
have less influence in the south.
I dont know if the IVC seals indicate whether the society was
multilingual or not.
The horse obsession of vedic society could be explained as signs of
the times when some of the vedas were finalized and it does not rule
an earlier IA presence in India or earlier components of the vedas
and other non horse centric IA speakers.
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
