ashvamedha--to eat or not to eat?
Dominik Wujastyk wrote:
I am B. E. (Electronics), M.Tech (Electronics) with teaching  and research
experience at IIT/Kharagpur (19 years), L.D.College of Eng (9 years) and DDIT
(15 years). I also teach Meditation and Spiritual Studies for several years
now. I spent one year in Japan doing research in Computer Organization.
To study Vedas do you require a modern University degree or study? Classical
Sanskrit literature has little in common with the contents of RigVeda.
For last 30 years or so, I had been studying Upanishads, RigVeda, Nirukta,
BrahmasUtra, and other scriptural texts like ShrimadBhagavad. I do not
understand what is meant by "professional " journal in this field (i.e. of
Vedic studies).  My experience is that one can go quite a bit astray by
following what others have done.
I very very respectfully beg to differ from you. RigVeda is a book of
Knowlegde about Knowledge. It is possibly the first anthology of technical
papers (Suktas) in the world about Information  and Cognitive Science, and
how human brain deals with information and knowledge; how are abstract
concepts developed upto and including the concepts like God, religion, sin,
Bhakti,  Creation, the way brain works at several levels of abstraction, what
happens under Superconscious state,  etc. I think I am very well suited for
the job, better than several we had in past.
I have already interpreted according to my scheme (sorry, not really mine but
our ancient Rishis, as they should have been understood) about 3000 Richas
out of some 10,000 in RigVeda. I have presented a major paper at 39th All
India Oriental Conference (Vedic Studies Section) October 1998 at Baroda,
which was discussed very well and well received. Interpreting Vedas is not
monopoly of either our Dharmacharyas or Western Vedic Scholars. (Again sorry
to be a bit blunt here.)
There is one more qualification I can claim, but it is a bit difficult to
explain in a scholarly list. I can quote several Richas in support of the
above, but it will cross 2K limit. My interpretation is totally internally
consistent, and unifies (Samanvaya) differing interpretations.
By mistake I sent out HTML mode document which may have increased the length,
in future (if you people allow me to be on this list !) the length will be
taken care of.
