job posting (fwd)
THE UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA
Asa and Kashmir Johal Chair in India Research
Applications are invited for a newly-endowed Chair in India Research.
The appointment, beginning July 1, 2000, will be made jointly by the
Institute of Asian Research and the Department of Anthropology and
Sociology, and the successful applicant will contribute equally to both
units.  The joint appointment underscores our interest in and
commitment to interdisciplinary studies.  It is expected that the
appointment will be at the Associate Professor level, but for an
exceptional candidate it may be at a higher rank.  The successful
applicant will have a Ph.D., a substantial publication record, an
ongoing  program of research and publication, demonstrated excellence
in undergraduate and graduate teaching and supervision in
social/cultural anthropology. She or he should have conducted
ethnographic research in India and have full competence in at least one
of the languages of India apart from English.  The university is
looking for a dynamic individual who will contribute in original and
substantive ways to the intellectual growth of South Asia Studies.
The Institute of Asian Research (IAR) is the focal point at UBC for
research on contemporary issues in Asia, where research on India is carried
out through its Centre for India and South Asia Research (CISAR). CISAR is
one of five regional Research Centres within IAR.  The Centre was
established to promote research on a wide variety of topics dealing with
India and South Asia and its relationship to the world community.  CISAR
presents regular seminar series and conferences.  In addition, the Centre
is engaged in a variety of activities which encourages individual and
organizational interactions between India, South Asia and Canada.
In accordance with Canadian immigration requirements, priority will be
given to Canadian citizens and permanent residents.  The University of
British Columbia hires on the basis of merit and is committed to
employment equity.  All qualified persons are encouraged to apply.
Inquiries and applications, including names and addresses of three
referees, curriculum vitae, sample research materials and a summary of
current and future research interests should be sent by February 15,
2000 to:
Patti Berg, Secretary to the Appointment Committee
Dept. of Anthropology & Sociology
The University of British Columbia
6303 N.W. Marine Dr.
Vancouver, B.C. V6T 1Z1.
