Dates of written Rgveda
In a message dated 3/10/00 2:27:19 AM Eastern Standard Time, saf at SAFARMER.COM
writes:
[snip]
Sure.  I will be glad to 'except' your apologies.  Please 'except' mine too.
Well, I hesitate to speak for everyone, but to my knowledge there is
consensus on this point. As for your skepticism, we have encountered it
before in the work of Goody, Finnegan, Ong, and others.  Please understand: I
think that it is good that comparatists want to confront the Vedic material,
because it does pose a serious problem for at least the cruder forms of the
orality thesis.  Perhaps it is time to abandon such crude distinctions as
"the oral mentality" on the one hand, and the "literate mentality" on the
other.  I don't know where you stand on this, but I myself am deeply
suspcious of attempts at hypostasizing human mentality into merely two
convenient types like this.
As far as I can see, Manu is irrrelevant.  Nobody denies that writing was
commonplace by the post-Vedic period [and Manu is clearly post-Vedic].   That
the Brahminical orality of this period may have been a a type of secondary
orality [influenced by literacy] does not negate the fact that in the Vedic
period itself we seem to have primary orality [no influence of writing].
We recognize a certain amount of pre-canonical fluidity in the text of the
RV, of course.  But once it was canonized the RV was subjected to rigorous
methods of text preservation.  We do not claim that this process occurred
"over wide geographical and cultural regions."  No, it occurred within small,
isolated, intensely focussed, Vedic schools.  As for the length of time,
which apparently staggers you, once it was fixed, the text was fixed.
Period.  I fail to see what is impossible about this.  As for length of text,
remember that the RV is a collectioon of over a thousand hymns, the longest
of which is only a few hundred lines.
Have you studied Avestan?  It is another preliterate oral tradition.
I know that Vedic and Avestan both exhibit the behavior that I describe.  I
don't make any universal claims at all re uniqueness.  That is your worry,
not mine.  If you wish to attack my claims re Vedic and Avestan, then I think
that you are obliged to study the Vedic and Avestan material.  If your
objections are based merely on preconceptions about what preliterate cultures
are capable of remembering, then I would suggest that you reconsider, instead
of dismissing evidence that strikes you as 'curious' or 'unique.'
extended
Facts are facts, and curiosities are curiosities.  If you find something
curious and magical about Vedic oral tradition, then it is *your*
responsiblity to demonstrate this. If it is your view that all cultures must
behave like the ones that you are familiar with, then it is *your*
resonsibility to demonstrate this. Like Goody, you have to come to terms wih
the Vedic evidence and establish that Vedic bears the marks of literacy, in
spite of the complete absence of reference to writing in the texts and the
absence of writing of any kind in the Vedic period.
As I see it, the Vedic material clashes with Goody's model of oral mentality.
 His solution was to explain that material away by insisting that literacy
must have played a role.  But he did not demonstrate this.
I'd be glad to consider your attempt at doing so.
Best wishes,
George Thompson
