SV: SV: ICHR controversey
Rajarshi Banerjee [SMTP:rajarshi.banerjee at SMGINC.COM] skrev 01. mars 2000
19:41:
As I was trying to say in another mail: not just Marxist scholars. However: we
are evidently discussing two things at the same time: on the one hand,
mass-media communication where a certain amount of responsibility and restraint
is called for (for the reasons you mention yourself), and scholarly discussions
where professional attitude and factuality is called for. Discussing past
Muslim atrocities is perfectly in order as long as this discussion is delinked
from the modern political situation and not used as a tool to dehumanize
Muslims in general. In India this principle hardly seems to obtain.
There is a slight difference here: I am not talking about an immediate reaction
to an act of terrorism or a military attack. (This is called "defending your
country").  I am talking about revenge for injustices suffered by past
generations many decades or centuries ago. (BTW: I do not necessarily endorse
all action taken by Israelis and Americans. Israeli treatment of Palestinians
can be atrocious, but then Palestinian behaviour is not always adequate
either). If you want to react to military threats or acts of terrorism, the
targets should ideally be the perpetrators and/or their political leaders, not
random, ordinary civilians. But that is part of a definitely non-Indological
discussion).
The harping on Muslim injustice in the pre-British period is used as a means of
targeting Muslims *in general*, and Muslims at that who are innocent of the
atrocities committed in the past. But as I said, that does not mean that
Muslims are beyond criticism. I have seen stupid and brutal reactions on the
part of Muslims as well, and there is no excuse for committing such acts of
terrorism as you mention.
INdia probably has
You are wrong. As far as I can see, such episodes get mentioned fairly often,
although they do not necessarily become first page headlines. Journalists tend
to look for a bit of blood and gore to enliven the pages of otherwise boring
newspapers, and items such "30 persons gunned down at Indian wedding", "25
persons drown in ferry accident on the Ganges" etc. usually end up at the
bottom of page 3 or 4. I have seen fairly regular - but underemphasized reports
on atrocities in South Asia in the local press here. The problem is that they
are rarely analyzed in a broader context. The reader gets scraps of information
on South Asia, but  seldom intelligent explanations. And of course, our local
petty political quarrels are always more in focus than major catastrophies in
the world beyond Norway.
That is highly debatable. I have been a subscriber to the "Organiser" for a
year, and "laid back" and "restrained" are hardly words that pop into my mind.
The BJP and its sister organisations run pretty hard-nosed campaigns against
both Muslims and Christians, thus exposing them to violence at grass-root
levels.
