Dates of written Rgveda
Dear Dr. Witzel,
Thanks very much for your last note. I obviously stumbled unwary
into a hornets' nest, since I've received over two dozen off-List
messages in the last two days on the subject -- rather
astonishing (and disturbing, since this all came in the middle of
a publication deadline). I didn't know that I was hitting an open
scholarly nerve when I asked an innocent (I thought) question
about oral/literate transmission of the Rgveda on the List. Such
is the fate of the comparative historian, who is perpetually a
neophyte and clumsy disciplinary intruder.
I will, in the next few weeks, take a close look at the mnemonic
literature specific to India, as you suggest. I do know quite a
bit about the literature on mnemonic traditions applicable to
other civilizations, so the comparison should be fruitful. I
already know the philological work of Falk, Fussman, et al., and
that of other figures who you mention in your note. I appreciate
the time that you took in answering my note; much of the
information in it I've found invaluable.
That being said, I'll cut to the chase; you wrote:
Thanks -- that is the *only* admission that I was really looking
or hoping for. I can live with this view. What you write here is,
I think, a considerable move away from your original claim
(possibly made polemically, and in haste) that the first written
text of the Rgveda came no sooner than c. 1000 CE. As Lars Martin
Fosse has pointed out, in some ways our work may not really be
all that far apart. (I'm still not certain.) I still have doubts,
as I have expressed before, about the fidelity of oral
transmission in the total absence of written texts. But I'll
reserve my judgment about the supposed uniqueness of Indian
mnemonics until I look at the collection of specialized studies
in Staal et al. and others (Lars has sent me a useful
bibliography). Thanks to the other messages people have sent me,
I now have over sixty Indological studies in a half dozen
languages that I will try to work through in the next month or
so.
As to the proposed links between the language of the Rgveda and
Indian Valley civilizations argued for by Vishal Agurwal and
others  -- part of the bloody internecine war that I've unwarily
stumbled into -- I have insufficient data at this point to form
any kind of judgment at all. I only hope that the war doesn't
destroy this List [internecine = equally murderous to both
sides], since all of you have furthered my understanding of the
basic issues in the past few days. I will be watching the List
closely for data in the coming month while I take time to read
the scholarly literature that people have kindly directed me to.
I note looking at my computer desktop that over a dozen more
unanswered messages, some still unread, carry the title "Dates of
written Rgveda." I will hold off for now in responding
immediately to any publicly posted messages -- Luft! as
chessplayers have it -- but I invite continued private
correspondence with all those who have approached me off-List. I
suspect that I may have something further to say about the issue
To George Thompson: Thanks for your last much more conciliatory
message in INDOLOGY. One clarification: Vishal Agarwal isn't my
new-found "ally," since I've taken no sides in this currently
mutually destructive scholarly war. Vishal has, however, provided
me with a lot of interesting and useful information that I plan
to evaluate in the coming weeks, along with the other useful data
that I've received from you and those on your side of the issue.
On Vygotsky and Luria (also mentioned in Dr. Thompson's note): I
admit to being an admirer of their classic study of rapid
oral/literate shifts in Central Asia in the 1930s, and even more
so of Luria's groundbreaking works on cortical function, which
still plays a surprisingly big role in the field. But I agree
with you that Vygotsky/Luria do not shed light on the kinds of
oral/literate interactions that are relevant here. More relevant
are studies involving the relationships between oral and literate
traditions seen throughout the manuscript age, stretching for a
minimum of two millennia everywhere in Eurasia starting in most
areas around 400 BCE. (Please NB that I am referring here to the
incremental accumulation of *manuscript traditions*, not to the
first introduction of literacy, which is a very different issue.)
This is the period that I study most extensively in my work --
originally just in the West but, more with collaborators and
recently, in China and Southeast Asia as well. The complexity of
these oral/literate interactions in this extended period were
just as complex in other parts of Eurasia as they were in India.
(Also in Mesoamerica, incidentally, on which we have a surprising
large body of data on oral/literate interactions in the late
pre-Columbian period.)
My best to all,
Steve Farmer
Michael Witzel wrote:
