Comparative linguistics
Robert Zydenbos wrote:
The peremptory "should" reveals the correction that you seek to make in the
thoughts of others expressed by them, in this case in English. Else, you would have
written your own sentence instead of ammending mine. Quite clearly, by "my English"
I could not have meant its grammar etc. Such teaching to write (please look for the
vyanjanaa this time) by missionaries at schools or elsewhere has  done no good to
anybody.
You are not the only one I wish to communicate with on this list, nor is this a place
to display or test my sanskrit on others. You may, but I do not presume that the list
members are waiting to "benefit", and least of all from me. In any case, if sanskrit
was natural or acceptable (ask your other fellow Dravidianologists) to Indology members,
they would be talking in that, instead interjecting mere exclamations.
My post  " Aryan construct served not only the colonial regime, it still serves the
current north-south divide", has no comment on the existence or situation  of
precolonial Northern and Southern parts of India/Bhaarata/Jambudvipa/Karma
Bhumi/Hindostaan, but on the "current" situation, that is, on the cultural constructs
prevailing in modern times.
In these modern constructs the "Aryan" has given a victim syndrome to many "Dravidian"
south Indians (including the ideologues of Tamil Elam and LTTE) as a result of modern
philological and historical theories. You yourself declare that what Nehru and Kosambi
have said  "in essence still holds good" (whatever that may mean).
By repeating the obvious that North and South Indians invaded each other before the
British came are you trying to absolve the linguists of the strife-promoting impact of
their concepts which they set afloat on evidence which they earlier regarded as
sufficient.  Terms like dravida, pancadravida, kerala or andhra  were geographic
and culturally descriptive but not glossocentrically ethnic promoting new nation states
threatening to carve their own territores.
I doubt becasue dakkhin or pancdravida are not so mysterious as the IVC script.
Bharat Gupt
