Query on a myth of "Siva killing a shark
Dear List Members,
I have a question on the source of a "Saiva myth I found in a Japanese
book.  It is the Japanese translation of Veronica Ions, Indian Mythology,
London: The Hamlyn Publishing Group, 1973, 1983 (translated by Sakai
Denroku, Tokyo, Seido-sha, 1990, p. 212).
I retranslate it from Japanese:
         One day, when "Siva was reading the inscriptions in a loud voice
         and explaining them to Paarvatii, he discovered that she was
         sleeping.  He reprimanded her for being not attentive to such
         important things.  She then replied that she was not sleeping, but
         only closing her eyes to listen better to her husband.  He asked
         her about what was explained, and she could not answer.  He cursed
         her to fall from Kailaasa and become a human fisher-woman as
         punishment for her inattention and lie.
         "Siva became alone on the Kailaasa mountain and tried to meditate.
         But he discovered that his concentration was disturbed by his
         thoughts of Paarvatii.  However, he had to wait sometime to obtain
         her again.  He first sent his servant Nandin to the human world
         after transforming him as a shark.  The shark teared the nets of
         fishers (among whom was Paarvatii) and plagued them.  As the shark
         became the biggest trouble of the population of the coast, people
         decided to give the most beautiful girl as bride -- that is Paarvatii
          -- to the man who would subjugate it.  Hearing of that
         offer, "Siva, transforming himself as a human fisherman, went to
         the village where lived Paarvatii and subjugated the shark.  Thus,
         he married her, and they went back to their Kailaasa palace.
Could anyone be so kind as to indicate me the source of this myth, and, if
the details are different from the original, let me know the differences?
Thank you very much in advance!
Best regards,
Nobumi Iyanaga
Tokyo,
Japan
