Dates of written Rgveda
Unfortunately Srisa Rao confuses two things:
1* the collection (samhitaa) of the RV early one by some unknown vy-aasa,
and later on, its redaction by Sakalya (and some  others, Baskala etc.)
2*  the notices we have in the Anukramani and in the post-Rgvedic texts
about authors of the Rgvedic hymns.
No one (at least not  in modern  Indology, last 200 years)  has  claimed
that no. 2 is correct.
Or does anyone accept Ms. Vaac as author of the hymn on Speech? (RV 10.125)
Also, the notices about the authors of the SAME stanza in RV,AV, YV, AV
disagree.
This is all secondary stuff. People tried to find authors when no living
tradition was available.
However, as far as 1* is concerned, even where we cannot be sure about the
author or his clan (Vasistha etc.), the ORDER, arrangement of the hymns
still indicates what belongs together and what not, and what had been
inserted by the time of Sakalya, from unknown sources.
Old news, see Bergaigne, and Oldenberg, Prolegomena  1888
(why do we always have to repeat such old news?? I mean it: it shows that
people talk about the RV and do not know the basics. )
What is much more interesting is that Satapatha Brahmana, of the same time
as Sakalya,
quote the Pururavas/Urvasi hymn as having 15 stanzas while it now has 18
(*against* the order of arrangement in RV). Again, very old news.  But it
shows exactly what we know anyhow, that there were several early redactions
(Sakalya, Baskala, Mandukeya etc.)  of which we have only Sakalya and a few
notes about the two others.  (The existence of their texts has always been
rumored, but nothing has appeared or at least been described in some
detail. In the meantime, we wait, patiently.)
Therefore, Rao's statement, below, is 100% besides the point I made in the
quote immediately following:
QED.
Srisa Rao:
Michael Witzel
Department of Sanskrit & Indian Studies, Harvard University
2 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge MA 02138
ph. 617-496 2990 (also messages)
home page:     www.fas.harvard.edu/~witzel/mwpage.htm
Elect. Journ. of Vedic Studies:         www1.shore.net/~india/ejvs
