From rajarshi.banerjee at SMGINC.COM  Mon Apr 24 17:31:33 2000
From: rajarshi.banerjee at SMGINC.COM (Rajarshi Banerjee)
Date: Mon, 24 Apr 00 13:31:33 -0400
Subject: Beavers (and bikinis)
Message-ID: <161227057974.23782.3207387933232198387.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

MW> It is perhaps of interest that the modern descendent of *bhebhru in New
Persian, beber,  does *not* refers  to the beaver but to 'a wild, cat-like,
tail-less animal whose skins are used'  (Horn, Grundriss der neupersischen
Etymologie p. 42; Steingass, Pers. dict.,  similarly.) Horn adds that
according to Blanford, Eastern Persia,  Vol. II p. 35, it is doubful
whether the beaver   'still is found in Persia today' (1876).


RB> That seems to show that before mordern taxonomy, animal names and the
species they referred to were not stable. Here we have an example of beber
being used to describe a non aquatic, tailless species. Their only common
feature from a human perspective was that they were hunted for their fur. So
the question can be put what species did the hypothetical *bhebhru refer to
something brown used for fur, mink, mongoose maybe. The word beaver in its
european context could be more recent than say bawri in avestan.

I am curious to know what a beber is. Is it related to a genet or a civet
cat. Or is it a lynx. Cannot think of any tailless species.

RB> But if beavers are not found in iran then both bawri and udra could
become
>references to the >same animal.

MW> They are distinct: Middle Persian (Phl. Videvdad)  vadrak 'otter'  <
Avest.  udra;   and Middle Persian bawrak, Mod. Pers. beber 'cat-like
animal' (as above)

RB> Good point but could also be taken to mean that bawri and udra were just
distinct words in avestan (reflexes of an older tradition), which were later
again used to describe different species.  I admit this is somewhat
convoluted but not unreasonable. It depends on whether beavers fossils are
found in Iran.

RB> Otters are hunted for their pelts even in southeast asia. 30 beavers
pelts
>to make a garment for a single person seems excessive. A small otter could
fit the
>bill. Ofcourse the figure 30 need not be taken literally either.

MW> Certainly, it can be used figuratively, especially in the case of a
dress
of a goddess. However, "a small otter" would not fit even *one* human (not
to speak of deities).  All the Iranian Saravati (Anahita)  would get would
be a bikini, or  less.
Not in fashion then.

RB> You misunderstood:
Bikini made of 30 otters. We would have to think of a woman of gigantic
dimensions. A beaver is a large animal, avg weight is 45-60 pounds. Large
specimens of upto 110 pounds are also not uncommon. I am speaking of north
american species castor canadensis. River otters in general could weigh upto
25 pounds. Otters pelts are considered pretty valuable also. Otters are
sleek and beautiful especially when you compare them with ugly beavers.

I have seen mesopotamian maybe elamite figurines sporting bikinis but thats
a whole different discussion and in any case I was thinking mink coats or
wedding gowns not bikinis. Curiously "beaver" in slang refers to what is
underneath the bikini.

regards RB




