Beavers
Dr. Witzel replied: Remains to be seen, I read the section on beavers nearly
30 years ago in connection with Yasht 5, in the original German version of
Grzimek, and vividly remember that it speaks of some "beavers surviving
today in pools(Tuempel) in a desert like environment" or something to that
effect. Memory may fail me, however, the facts can be checked.
VA responds: The ed. referred to by me is from 1972, also approx 30 years
old. The original German ( = Tierleben) goes to 1967 i.e, not much older,
and is also available here. Plus, I looked at some other books that are over
a century old and refer to non-whites as 'natives'. The map in Grzimek as
well as in the others clearly show the Beaver boundary MUCH NORTH of the
area of our interest. The Beaver boundery is however much more south in N
American, where it extends all the way into Mexico (although Florida and
Georgia states are excluded). Please check your ed. of Grzimek, because mine
surely does not mention any Beavers in pools in desert areas in the present
or in the past.
Dr. Witzel said: Fact is that Palaeoclimate took a dramatic turn after the
end of the last
Ice Age, c. 10,000 BCE, also in Central Asia,  where there were giant
lakes, etc. Though the climate has then remained more or less stable since
3000 BCE or so, even by 2000 BCE there existed,  in the deltas of the
Tiurkmenistan/Tajikistan BMAC area and elsewhere, giant brush areas and the
typical riverine forests.
VA: True, that the topography and climate of the world was much different
around 10000 BCE. And hence the postulated swamps in Rajasthan/Sahara, the
Saraswati reaching the sea and so on. And Puranic accounts of these areas
often presume a more lush green environ. For that matter, the Beaver might
have existed in Kashmir, Hilly areas of Punjab/HP, Uttarakahand. After all
these areas are at the same latitude as Alabama, Texas, Mexico and so on
where Beavers (though of a different species) are found till today in
abundance. However, the existence of Beaver has not been suggested by anyone
to my knowledge in the area of our interest. Nor do I think that Indologists
would like to trace the Avestan words for Beaver to some proto word in 10000
BCE. The elite have been importing commodities from distant regions--a look
at the origin of the semi-precious stones in the Taj Mahal will take one to
Lake Baikal, Bylorussia and so on (See museum outside the Taj Mahal).
Dr. Witzel said:I doubt that very extensive searches have been done in the
various Stans. Soviet archaeologists were interested in other matters. I
will find out and let y'all know.
VA: Thanks in advance.
MW:However, the Avestan people know a little too much about beavers, for my
taste, not just about their furs. (Another long tale) ...
VA: Well, I will check the Avesta, although unfortunately 1/2 volumes of the
original text are missing in the local library and only translations are
available.
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com
