Etext of kArAn2ai vizupparaiyan2 maTal, a lokAyata text
The following excerpt from an announcement in the agathiyar list by Dr. K. 
Kalyanasundaram of Project Madurai may be of interest to Indologists. 
"You can now access the Etext file as a PDF file using the URL
   http://www.tamil.net/projectmadurai/pub/pm0060/valamatal.pdf
This Etext release is another UNIQUE RELEASE of Project Madurai,
in bringing directly to electronic form unpublished Tamil works that
are still at palm-leaf manuscript level. As you might have learnt
from previous postings to this mailing list, Dr. Naga Ganesan of
Houston, Texas, USA has been instrumental to tracking down hidden
Tamil treasures still at the palm leaf level at remote places within
India. Dr. Ganesan deciphered this work from the palm-leaf manuscripts
that are currently at the possession of Perur Adheenam and
Palm-Leaves Library of Tamilnadu Govt (GOML).
....
The present work has NOT yet been published in book form by anyone.
Dr. Ganesan is in the process of publishing this work in book form
along with detailed commentary on the verses?In view of this special/unique 
situation, we would like to add the following notice as part of the Etext 
Release note.
"The Tamil work contained in this pdf file is hitherto unpublished,
verses taken directly from the palm-leaf manuscripts currently at the
possession of Perur Adheenam and Palm-Leaves Library of Tamilnadu Govt. 
(GOML). Dr. Naga Ganesan has taken efforts to bring the work
in electronic form and has been very generous to submit a pre-release
version through Project Madurai.
Dr. Ganesan is in the process of publishing a book on this work with
added commentary notes. In view of this, reproduction of this
work in any form is NOT permitted nor redistribution in any form
other than the present pdf file with this header part intact.
Please contact the author (Dr. N. Ganesan, email:
<n_ganesan2 at hotmail.com> for permission)."
Please respect the above restrictions on the usage of the PDF file.
The PDF file as the TSCII font embedded in it and hence you should
be able to view it on all computer platforms for which Adobe Acrobat
Reader is available free, without the need to have the font installed
on the computer."
Regards
S. Palaniappan
