rudram in hiranyakesin zrautasUtra
I assume your priest meant by 'rudram' what is also known as the
;Satarudriya-litany. On this litany, see the brief note (p. 329) in Gonda's
"Vedic Literature: Samhitas and Brahmanas", but especially the article which
Gonda devoted to the litany, pp. 75-91 of "Sanskrit and Indian Studies,
Essays in Honor of D.H.H. Ingalls" (Dordrecht 1980) [= J. Gonda, Selected
Studies, Vol. VI, part 1, 526ff.].
Your priest seems to have been entirely on the mark. In Gonda's article, p.
77, I read: "The whole text or the first and last sections of it occur at
H[ira.nyake;si]G[.rhya]S[uutra] 2,8,11 in a description of the spit-ox
sacrifice...". Now, the HirGS is actually just part of the entire
Satyaa.saa.dhasuutra (see Kashikar, "A Survey of the ;Srautasuutras"
[Journal of the Univ. of Bombay, XXXV/2, 1966] pp. 60-61) so the reference
to the *;srauta*-suutra is not really wrong.
More up to date is Gonda, "The Ritual Suutras" (1977), pp. 502ff. Kirste's
edition of HirGS does NOT give the litany in full, but it may be different
in the Poona Anandasrama edition of the entire Suutra, which I unfortunately
don't have  at hand. The place in question should be in chapter XX of the
entire Suutra.
Yes, see Gonda's article in the Ingalls Festschrift.
Yes, they do. Some information may be had from the works quoted above. In
addition, you might consult the extensive intro. to Kashikar's Bharadvaaja
;Srauta/ Pait.rmedhika/Pari;se.sa-suutra edition.
    Perhaps some information on the cooperation of priests of various
subschools can also be found in Staal's "Agni", but I am not sure about
that. It is not my impression that a vaikika would normally learn the
suutras of more than one subschool, as this would be entirely redundant. On
learning the mantra-texts of various basic schools, see D. Knipe, "Becoming
a Veda in the Godavari Delta" (Festschrift Staal).
    For specific questions regarding the texts of the
Satyaa.saa.dha-subschool, you should consult Prof. Shingo Einoo
<seino at ioc.u-tokyo.ac.jp>.
Hope this helps,
CNWS / Instituut Kern
Universiteit Leiden
Postbus 9515
2300 RA  Leiden
the Netherlands
tel.: +31-71-5272979
