Madhava, Vidyaranya, Sringeri, and Kulke
Dear friends,
Dr. Palaiappa answered to my letter some days ago and put a few more
questions. A seminar was held in Bangalore in 1986 to celebrate the birth
centenary of renowned scolar of the yore Sakaleshapura Shrikantahayya. The
topic of the seminar was EARLY VIJAYANAGARA, studies in its history and
culture. This subject was very dear to the veteran scholar Srikanthayya. So
this topic was chosen for the seminar.The papers were piublished in 1988 by
the B.M.S. Memorial Foundation; Bangalore under the general editorship of my
professor Dr. G. S. Dikshit.
Now coming to his next question about the vassals and relatives of Hoysala
coming to serve the new rulers of Karnataka from their capital city
Vijayanagar: On this subject I have published an article in the Journal
ITIHAS; in late 70s. Then I have developped it more in my latest book
"Vijayanagar" published by NBT; Delhi in 1999. I have never changed my
views.
During the rule of Harihara and Bukka there were two ministers named
Madhava. Luckily their Gotrra and SUtras are mentioned in their works as
well as in their inscriptions which makes our work little easier. Now the
publication of Puraanasaara confirms that Madhava, the brother of Sayana
first became the minister to Harihara I and then to Bukka I for a while
before renouncing the GRahasthaashrama.
Unfortunately I do not have Dr. Kulke's article here with me. So I cannot
say either yes or no to his views. But one thing I confirm here that the
KaDitas in the MaTha are to be read carefully and the contents mentioned in
them have to be accepted cautiously.
Dr. A.K. Shastry has worked on Shringeri PItha and KaDitas there. His works
are ; A History of Sringeri published by Prasaranga, Karnataka University,
Dharwar, 1982. The same is published in Kannada by the Math itself.
But I do not think we will succeed in finding some written doccuments
relating to the history of the Math before 1346. In early seventies I tried
my best to find something while I was working for my doctoral thisis on the
"Beginnings of Vijayanagar upto 1377". But I did not get any charts either
on copper plates or on stones. In case anybody finds something I shall be
very thankful to the person for the kind information.
Thanks for your thought provoking questions.
Sincerely yours
Vasundhara.
Re: Madhava, Vidyaranya, Sringeri, and Kulke
Vijayanagara
have
K.
by
played
then
any
that
but
