> And receive a prize. From me. I mean it.

I can't resist the challenge. So here goes:

What I have found astounding (no: let me say 'shocking') is that, while
we are discussing the Indus Valley Culture, nobody here has realised
that most of the Indus is in Pakistan. In other words, Prof. Witzel's
geographical context is *entirely wrong*. Since everybody knows (so I
have heard) that the skeletal remains of the ancient inhabitants do
not differ from the skeletons of people at present living there, it
follows that those ancients were Pakistanis and must have spoken Urdu,
as is *immediately clear* from a *totally impartial, objective and
scientific* reading of the inscription:

  m -d - d     -     r -g   -  v - d -  z        - s        -    d

must mean:

  "madad Raghuu-de;s se do"

i.e., "Give help from the land of Raghu". So while Witzel was on the
right track with his 'Raaghava', he overlooked some crucial
geographical facts, and this invalidates his interpretation and makes
it unscientific / wrong / outrageous, hence eurocentric and condemnable
with the greatest indignation.

Surely some pedantic types will object that Pakistan did not exist at
the time of the IVC. What should we say about such petty minds, bogged
down in neo-colonial historicist constructs? (Note that the IVC cities
were excavated by the Brits.) Such pathetic characters will stop at
nothing to obstruct the spread of new models of thought; they may even
try to satirise and ostracise me on Internet mailing lists. Yes, we
have here nothing less than a *paradigm shift*, and a *progressive* one
at that. Whereas conventional OIT-ers push back dates and thus are
*regressive* by a few thousand years, I am pushing the IVC forward and
hence am progressive. (Let us not be detained by trivial numbers.
After all, what are a few millenia compared with yugas?) Cf. also the
socio-political content: in that poignant inscription, the poor
Pakistanis are calling for help from the land of Sri Ramachandra of
Ayodhya (now liberated, since 1992), so that they may be reconverted to
the Eternal Dharma ('re-', because in ancient times everybody was a
sanaatanii, right?) preferably by splendid brahminical gentlemen (thanks
to whose grace other people have anything at all: cf. Manu); if these
persons have a background in the hard physical sciences (mathematics
etc.), so much the better, since we are living in a modern time and
cannot tolerate any mushy stuff (e.g., linguistics).

For the long 'uu' in 'Raghuu' cf. J.T. Platts, _Urdu, Classical Hindi
and English Dictionary_, publ.  OUP. It is scientific and not
linguistic, because I am telling you so and am a great authority,
because I am living an ethos with swami Sri Sri Unmattavrishabhachetana
of Muudhagrama and have bounced on cushions. However, there is no
aspiration of the 'g' because at the time of the inscription Pakistan
was already spiritually polluted, as the Arabic word 'madad' already
indicates. How did this word get there? By sea, of course, just as the
British came by sea. And by doing so, the British Aryans, in the manner
of Thor Heyerdahl, have proven that the ancient Aryans came by sea,
unless (OIT) the Indian Aryans crossed the sea to the Americas (Chaman
Lal) and Britain first. But this demands more research. It will be in
the Vedas, like everything, but we need a spiritual-cum-scientific
interpreter to clarify it: a guru. Meanwhile Witzel, Farmer and others
should shut up, because (as Dr. Elst has written in an essay, available
on the Disinformation Highway) they abuse the "importance of being
white" to intimidate Indians into believing crazy stuff, and Elst's
essay implies that Indians like R. Thapar apparently cannot resist
nonsense when they see it. (Where does this leave Dr. E. himself? More
about that some other time, which may never come because I will
probably be humiliated and walk out before I gift my wisdom to you.)
They were simply born wrongly, as mlecchas, and still haven't
understood the meaning of post-modernism and the New Age (which, like
everything else that is good, is Out of India - OI - and could have
corrected a lot in their minds). By the way, once again it has been
proven (as we must prove over and over again for all eternity) that the
AIT, that virulent mental disease of mlecchas and their communist
sidekicks who want to destroy India, is wrong (just as Vedantins must
prove forever and ever that the Caarvaakas are wrong). 

If should be immediately clear that this *interpretation of the
Dholavira inscription* (yes), with all that it implies, is the *only
right one*.-- I shall now quickly look for the number of my
bank account to which the prize money should be sent.

RZ




