"right-wing", but  I had not expected to run into that viewpoint here.
            Dr. Wujastyk, you have offered an apology to Dr. Zydenbos
because Mr. Agarwal had used intemperate language ("pathetic") against him.
If you owe an apology whenever a list member gets intemperate language
thrown at him, you owe several to me.  There definitely are class A and
class B
members on this list, but since that is just the way of the world, I won't
make
a point of it.  Rather, I'll satisfy Dr. Zydenbos's repeated complaints that
I haven't answered his questions, "even the most elementary one".
            Most elementary was certainly the question "whether 2
comes before 3".  The first time he posed it, I had understood it
as rhetorical, but when he started repeating it, with the grim airs of a
judge entitled to an answer from the man in the dock, I wondered if I
was faced with a mental case.  The facts: in my website article, I had
mistakenly assumed (in spite of having the correct date in footnote) that
the 1993 articles by Rajaram and Zydenbos were written in 1992, due to
Zydenbos' referring to the date of the 1992 Ayodhya demolition as "December
6",
without giving the year.  Alright, my mistake.
I had also noticed the mistake when rereading the article, but since
changing things on a website is pretty cumbersome for an internet beginner,
I had postponed correcting it, on the assumption that it was
inconsequential.  My assumption that nobody would be petty-minded
enough to make a point of this little mistake proved to be yet another
mistake: one such person did show up.  So for his
benefit, I can now clarify that upon closer inspection, 2 does precede 3
(except in numbers like 32 or 9392).
            He also wanted to know why Westerners like Francois
Gautier and myself make common cause with
the so-called Hindutva forces.  To the extent that this is the case, we're
certainly not doing it for the money, for it is a bad career move.  The
answer is simpler: we are taking the stand that we are convinced is the
right one.  For example, we can see for ourselves that there is much truth
in the
BJP allegation that Nehruvian secularism really is "pseudo-secularism".
Thus, India has separate religion-based civil codes, defended by all
"secularist" parties: in demanding a Common Civil Code, the BJP represents
secularism while the "secularist" parties uphold religious
discrimination.  This is a very simple fact, so simple that opponents short
of arguments dismiss it as "simplistic".  The question is not why *we* have
noticed this fact, for it is obvious enough, but why all those tenured
experts have failed to notice it.
        Dr. Wujastyk,  I am now quitting this list, because dealing with all
the abuse I have been receiving, is taking too much of my time and energy.
My conclusion regarding Dr. Zydenbos is that one
just can't argue with a sick mind.  If I had known that a supposedly sobre
academic could run away from his own words in such a nasty and destructive
manner, I would never have intervened in the AIT debate on this list, which
was making promising
progress.
        But I still find it odd, Dr. Wujastyk, that you banned AIT
discussion
because it "doesn't bring out the best" in some of us, all while continuing
to allow the very type of intervention which gave you that negative
impression, esp.
the calumny which Dr. Zydenbos has been spewing against Rajaram, S.R. Rao,
Agarwal, and
myself.  Banning the debate ad rem while permitting the attacks ad hominem
is a case of throwing out the baby and retaining the dirty bathwater.  So,
you keep what you chose to keep, and I follow the baby on his way out.
Goodbye.
Yours sincerely,
Koenraad Elst
