Advaita and MAdhyamaka
If it were as simple as that we wouldn't be having an argument
about it, would we? The reason why you'll not find such a
statement in Advaita texts is the difference in the angle
from which the problem is approached by both schools.
NAgArjuna's concentration is entirely on the phenomenal world.
But to limit the scope of his dialectic as either a tool to
prove all theories as empty or to invalidate knowledge itself
doesn't do it full justice.
His destructive dialectic exposes the weakness of our
understanding of what we claim to be reality. The world is only
the world we know, but this knowing is ultimately deficient.
So that world is not what we assume it to be - in reality
there's neither production nor destruction, neither nihilism
nor eternalism, neither unity nor plurality, neither coming in
nor going out. With this the traditional way in which the
world is viewed by philosophers - as desire being the cause
of misery, spiritual progress and the eternal Self, liberation
as escape from the cycle of birth and death, knowledge being
the means to liberation are all invalidated. All these are just
conceptions and the true path to liberation starts only when
all views are relinquished.
But the ontological implication of his dialectic - the tattva
which is to be directly experienced and where all plurality is
merged - other than saying that it is only samsAra when not
viewed through the lens of causality and relativity, NAgArjuna
doesn't go beyond that.
That GaudapAda himself approves of AjAtivAda of the MAdhyamaka
is itself enough to prove Advaita's view of samsAra is only
the same as the MAdhyamikas. When there's neither production
nor destruction, where's birth and death or bondage and
liberation? But again as said before Advaita approaches the
problem from a different angle.
While NAgArjuna approaches reality from the phenomenal, Advaita
comes the other way. On the strength of the shruti and spiritual
experience, brahman is asserted as the truth - one without a
second. So what of the world? The world is mithya (unreal) and
mAyA (an illusion). The nature of this illusion? Shankara says
it is anirvAchaniya - neither real, nor unreal, nor both, nor
neither (the classic MAdhyamika chatushkoti). Beyond that Shankara
doesn't waste much effort trying to prove the unreality of the
world - he does his best to ignore it.
So why isn't Shankara saying the samsara is nirvAna? Because
only when you approach nirvAna from samsAra, would that question
arise. For when approaching reality through the phenomenal, the
phenomenal has some value and relation to the noumenal. But when
approached from nirvAna, where is samsAra? The point of
