Harappan 'non-texts'?
Thanks to Steve Farmer for his thought-provoking remarks on the Harappan
script, or absence thereof.
Talageri "extreme"?  He is extremely logical in extracting all the
information from the Vedic data, a corpus at which numerous scholars have
been staring for the past two centuries without understanding the historical
and chronological elements in it.
This is standard Parpola, as pointed out by SF himself.  This is not a
thesis I put forward, but a part of the introduction recapitulating matters
of consensus.  So i thought it was, and it is quite new to me that someone
takes the "extreme" position
and that
Well, why not?  But then we shouldn't make things too easy for
revolutionaries, and consider the following.
That is precisely what S.R. Rao has demonstrated in his introduction to his
own attempted decipherment (Dawn and Devolution of the Indus Civilization).
While his decipherment is flawed (though probably on the right track, and
agreeing on many points with independent decipherments by other Indians), he
may have done something very important by showing that the youngest Harappan
seals have fewer signs, and esp. fewer complicated ones.
This comparison is as ill-advised as Parpola's Aztec one.  Italian uses the
same alphabet it used in Dante's days, and even orthography has evolved but
little (compared e.g. to Dutch).  Further, cuneiform was fairly fixed after
its formative period, and was in use for three times as long as Parpola's
Harappan (2600-1900 BC).  Hieroglyphics too were quite "frozen".  Chinese
was very fixed for over 22 centuries (3rd BC to 20th AD).
No comment on this point as yet.
In the IVC, by contrast, we do find a developed writing system, applied
uniformly over a vast area, even if so far only attested on seals.  The
uniformity of this and other usages does make it hard to believe that it was
all done without writing, but here we are merely speculating on what is
possible, and no doubt several different scenarios are possible.  But again,
while illiterate urban civilizations are possible, IVC literacy is a fact.
See ref. to SR Rao above.  The situation described by SF resembles that in
Japanese, where syllabic script is used in combination with Chinese
logographs.  It is unclear how SF's source decided on what is a symbol: many
distinct symbols (some of which are hapax legomenon, appearing only once or
only a few times) are very likely combinations of simpler symbols, just as
in Devanagari script consonants clusters may be rendered by combined
consonant signs.  Thus, the "man with antlers" sign may be read as a
picturesque logograph (as in most Dravidianist and other non-Sanskritic
readings of the IVC script), but it may also be analysed into several
simpler signs, with the "antlers" really being the very common "jar" signs.
In spite of my counter-arguments given above, I am quite ready to
countenance this surprising minimization of IVC literacy.  But far from
offending OIT proponents, this view of the IVC should be welcomed by them.
After all, it is said of Vedic civilization that it was entirely or very
largely oral, making it very different from the literate IVC; but now the
same thing is asserted for that very IVC.
All the best,
K. Elst
