Harappan Horse Thieves! (Decipherment Debunked)
Van: Steve Farmer <saf at SAFARMER.COM>
I don't like the endless imputation of funny motives which keeps on
poisoning the whole AIT debate; that includes all the imputations against
Dr. Farmer himself expressed on the IndianCivilization list.  I suppose the
only thing to do about it is to keep on redirecting the focus at the
evidence again and again.  As for my "minimalism", the only reason is lack
of time over the weekend (my wife etc. etc.).  Given Dr. Farmer's impatient
eagerness for the Dholavira text, I just shot off the essential.
The lack of evidence there is not all that total, judging from what Indian
archaeologists tell me, and the destructive Indian climate must be factored
in.
Again that conspiratorial spin put on what I know to be Jha and Rajaram's
honestly held conviction about the correctness of their decipherment.
Among scholars, this (even conditionally) imputed reliance on "faith" to be
"saved" by "exegesis" must be considered an insult.  I'll let that pass too.
You know enough about NASA scientist Rajaram to surmise that he bases his
theory on something better than faith.  It still remains that his method may
turn out to be flawed, but that is one thing he shares with all researchers.
Not in any different ways.  There is a common phonetic element between R and
r, between ka, ke and ki, etc.
Though difficult for the decipherer (or conversely making things easier for
the lazy decipherer), it so happens that such scripts have existed and still
exist: Hebrew and Arabic, of course, but also some Indian script used for
bookkeeping until recently, e.g. the older form of Gurumukhi.
"fudge" etc.: see above.
You may have noticed that my own initial enthusiasm for this decipherment
has waned, but not to the point of dismissing it as an "insider's joke" or
an "exegesis" etc.  In internal consistency, it is as good as Parpola's and
better than all other proposed decipherments that I have seen.  Also, the
authors accept the limits of their interpretation, e.g. concerning some
Harappan-script seals found in West Asia, they state that they cannot make
sense of them, surmising they were written in a different language: only one
of the many reasons not to follow Dr. Farmer's imputations of funny motives.
In a number of seals, their reading fits nicely if sometimes in unexpected
ways with the picture, e.g. there is an oft-copied bull motif with a brief
text read by them as "IndraH", who is indeed likened to a bull in the RV..
More to follow.
K. Elst
