> common with most India-watchers.  From Mein Kampf and from
> the minutes of his meeting with Congress leftist Subhash Bose, it is clear
> that Hitler had a steep contempt for Hindus, much in contrast with his high
> esteem for Islam.

What should we do with such a statement? I hope he is not saying that
Indologists in general contemn Hindus and / or favour Islam, or that
anyone who dares disagree with his version of Indian studies is a
Hitlerite. That would be 'smearing', and in September 1999 he said that
he disliked that...

>             Most elementary was certainly the question "whether 2
> comes before 3".  [...]
> Alright, my mistake. [...]
> I had also noticed the mistake when rereading the article, but since
> changing things on a website is pretty cumbersome for an internet beginner,

I will refrain from commenting on Elst's apparent difficulties in
reading modern newspaper English and what this means for his general
qualifications as a researcher. But if ever I see a printed copy of Dr.
Elst's book, I will see whether it is corrected there, and if not, I
will report it here on this list - whether he is still a member or not.
Correcting the text before it went to print surely would have been
still less cumbersome than uploading a file.

> I had postponed correcting it, on the assumption that it was
> inconsequential.

If the consequence is that one rambles further, with misplaced irony,
on the basis of that mistake, it is not inconsequential.

> So for his
> benefit, I can now clarify that upon closer inspection, 2 does precede 3
> (except in numbers like 32 or 9392).

No. The '3' in those numbers is not a three (as in 1993) but a thirty
and a three hundred respectively, which is rather important in
chronological questions. *Very* bad fudging - *especially* for an
Indologist with scientific interests!

The other question I repeated remains fudged - typically - between all
the tangled political diatribe that confirms what I have believed for a
long time: that these 'debates' about 'AIT' and ancient Indian history
are not at all what they ostensibly claim to be (viz., a search for
scholarly truth about ancient India), but an instrument of present-day
political propaganda in the hands of people with a particular agenda
and mindset. Cf. the discussions about the rewriting of history here
and on RISA-L (October 1999).

> My conclusion regarding Dr. Zydenbos is that one
> just can't argue with a sick mind.

What a delightfully ambiguous statement. Perhaps it is not the wild
insult it seems to be at first sight, but rather an unexpected and sad
moment of confession. ;-)

I think Dr. Elst needs a long vacation.

To conclude: A bully (whether his name is Rajaram or Elst) should not
complain when a bullied person (whether as a member of a group or as a
named individual) has the guts to hit back.

Anyhow, I am going on a trip for a month and will not write to this
list for a while - and I really mean this, and will not keep making
encores like Dr. Elst.

RZ




