Harappan 'non-texts'?
M. Witzel wrote:
Stephen Hodge responded:
I think that this is based on a misconception, Stephen. In defense
of what Michael has said, here is what Robert G. Henricks (1989: xv)
says in his introduction to his translation of the Laozi (=
Dao-de-jing) from the two extant Mawangdui manuscripts (tomb dated to
c. 168 BCE):
  In terms of differences in style, the characters in Text A
  are written in 'small seal' form, an old style of writing
  that was to be abandoned in the Han;  the characters in Text B
  by way of contrast, are written in the more modern "clerical"
  script. This is one indication that Text A was copied before Text B.
This indicates rapid changes in the script -- and not just
calligraphical variations -- in the relatively short period between
the time that the two Mawangdui versions of the Laozi were copied.
Indeed, Henricks uses those differences to give relative dates to the
texts! Conceivably, the facimile that Stephen Hodge saw was of the
more "modern" text B. It is quite dissimilar from Text A in script.
Other texts found in the Mawangdui tombs too show evidence of rapid
evolution in the form of the script. Edward Shaughnessy (1997: 15-16),
in his introduction to his commentary on the Yijing (Classic of
Changes) and its commentaries found at Mawangdui writes:
  As do the manuscript copies of the Laozi, comparison with the
  received texts of the Zhouyi [= Yijing] and of the Appended
  Statements (Xici) [= commentaries on the Changes Classic]
  reveals that the manuscript contains many phonetic
  loan characters and forms of characters more or less unorthodox;
  some of these variora may signal significant syntactic differences.
Even more *radical* differences in script are found in the recent
versions of the Laozi found in the Guodian tombs -- dating from c. 300
BCE -- in which the script is even further removed from those found in
the Han period (and, of course, further still from modern Chinese).
Henricks promises a translation and commentary on these Guodian
versions of the work later this year (a big event in Sinology)!
You will find very similar judgments about the evolution of old
Chinese script by William G. Boltz in the new _Cambridge History of
