From vpcnk at HOTMAIL.COM  Mon Jul 17 16:24:28 2000
From: vpcnk at HOTMAIL.COM (nanda chandran)
Date: Mon, 17 Jul 00 09:24:28 -0700
Subject: Date of Udhayana
Message-ID: <161227060049.23782.10828325718489048183.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

>I'll be brief. The mImAMsaka and the vedAntin have to argue
>for svataH prAmANya, because they have to hold that scripture
>is self-valid (but for different reasons). Generally, most
>arguments about a creator and scripture boil down to,
>"scripture is valid because God wrote it; God exists because
>scripture says so." By holding to svataH-prAmANya, this
>circularity is avoided.

>The naiyyAyika does not accept that scripture, or for that
>matter, any other kind of knowledge, is self-valid. No
>proposition is valid unless it can be proved to be true. The
>naiyyAyikas have had to pay much attention to the nature and
>structure of proof, like logicians elsewhere in the world.
>Scripture derives its validity from being the composition of
>a creator God.

I do not think the concept of svatah praamaanya vaada and
pratah praamaanya vaada of the Miimaamsakaa and the Naiyaayika
are as simple as this. The main point of these doctrines is
to check the validity of knowledge itself - that which you
"know" - from the pramaanas.

I accept that for the Miimaamsakaa since some knowledge is
intrinsically valid, he would accept the shruti the same way.
But again for the Miimaamsaka other kinds of knowledge are
not intrinsically valid - like the testimony of wise men,
since the validity of the testimony is inferred from the
trustworthy character of the person.

Basically the NaiyAyika stand is that at the time of cognition
knowledge is neutral and it is only later that the question of
the validity of knowledge arises. The validity of knowledge is
dependent on external factors like some excellence in the
causes of knowledge or the fruitful activity it gives rise to.

But Miimaamsakaa refutes this on the grounds that mere freedom
from defect and contradiction is enough to generate valid
knowledge. And for them the concept of "neutral" knowledge is absurd.
Validity of knowledge and belief in its validity arise simultaneously along
with knowledge itself.

So the stress is basically on validating knowledge itself and
does not relate to proving things by logic.

>To avoid the circularity mentioned above, any "worthy" nyAya author simply
>*has* to prove the existence of such a creator through independent
>arguments. He cannot say
>that he accepts a creator just because scripture says so. He
>has to validate his philosophical stance through what he would
>consider to be valid proof. And this is irrespective of when
>he may have lived, and irrespective of whether his opponents
>were "great" or not. If he had not made these arguments, he
>would not have been considered "worthy" or the "top" author
>of his school.

If what you say is true even earlier NaiyAyikas should have
done the same thing. But we see neither Gautama nor VAtsyAyana
or UdhyotakAra fighting for the cause. And also NyAya along
with Vaishesika believes in adhrsta or the unseen power which
moves the world. How can you provide logical arguments for such
a concept? And we find that whenever they are unable to prove
something by logic, they immediately take shelter in adhrsta.
This hardly matches the description of somebody who has to
prove everything by logic.

>No, it is not. I don't expect anybody who hasn't made an
>attempt to understand the logical method followed by Sankara
>to get any sense of the nature of how nyAya (note, I don't
>include vaiSeshika here) has influenced him. The influence of
>nyAya on advaita is at least as heavy as on viSishTAdvaita.

