Hinduism and Colonialism
At 07:18 PM 08/15/2000 +0000, Vidyasankar Sundaresan wrote:
Re Lorenzen's quote that:
VS asks:
It is not a question of what it conveys to me (or to you).  Lorenzen refers
to the contexts in which these terms are used by the bhakti poets themselves.
Here I disagree.  In some cases it can be very helpful.  The best example
is the god-antigod polarity:  deva vs. asura/dAnava/daitya/rAkSasa ( even a
new term, sura, was probably coined to stress the oppositional character of
the sura (i.e. deva) vs. asura relationship).  This polarity, made manifest
in constant battles between gods and demons, is very useful in
understanding Epic and Puranic mythology, where it is a recurring theme, a
theme carried over from Vedic mythology.
This same polarity is often used for identifying nAstikas (those who
disagree with 'us') as asuras.
See, for instance, the MaitrAyaNIya UpaniSad 7.8-10, where the terms
svargya and asvargya are used as well as deva and asura.  And also the
ViSNu PurANa (from 3.17.35 up to the end of 3.18) which gives a detailed
description of different heretics, including Buddhists, and identifies them
as demons.  For more, see the Ziva PurANa 2.5.4.1-36, and the BhAgavata
PurANa 1.3.24, 10.40.22, 11.4.22.  ViSNu's purpose for being born as the
Buddha was to delude those unfit for celebrating sacrifices, i.e. demons.
But then, demonizing foreigners and dissenters is a pretty universal practice.
All of this, of course, is not to say that Hinduism can be defined purely
by a "binary logic," to use your words.
Much of the current angry criticisms against Western Indologists, on the
other hand, IS portrayed in a binary mode (East vs. West).  As if there
were a need to insist on whether someone is Western or Indian.  This leads
us nowhere.  If there are specific things to be pointed out in specific
cases that can help, but broad generalizations based on an East-West divide
don't.
I never brought socialism or democracy into the picture.  If you assume I
was thinking about that, it is a mistaken assumption.
But, again, why the need to add that these are of "Western origin"?
You might remember I mentioned Doniger's suggestion that the acceptance of
the Vedas and of reincarnation seemed to be the only elements that could be
used to determine whether a tradition was Hindu or not in the Gupta period.
 VarNAzrama is not one of these elements.  This means many who reject
varNAzrama are included.
So, where is your remark coming from?
Best,
Luis Gonzalez-Reimann
University of California, Berkeley
