Kanchi Shankara Mutt
On Wed, 23 Aug 2000 03:47:43 GMT, Vidyasankar Sundaresan
<vsundaresan at HOTMAIL.COM> wrote:
Dear Shri Vidya,
There are two inscriptions in the aadhi Kumbheswarar Temple Kumbhakonam.
The first one is found near the Dhwjasthambham which states  "...In the
Saka year 1722 (1800AD)Roudhri Varusham SRI AACHARYA SWAMIBHI: NIRMATHA:
SRI KAANCHI KAMAKOTI PEETABHISHIKDA SRI MAHAA DEVENDRA YATHI UBHAYAM". A
Telugu version of this inscription is also found in the northern side of
the Sthambham.
The other one(Saka 1722)is found in the southern side of the Somaaskandha
shrine of the Kumbheswaran temple. This inscription says " Kumbheswara
Swamy Somaaskandha moorthikku Garbhagruham,Ardhamantapam moodunnu SRI
KANCHI KAMAKOTI PEETADHIPATHI CHANDRAMOULEESWARA DASABHOOTHA SRI MAHA
DEVENDRA YATHI DHARMAM"
Hence Vidya's assumption that there must have been a matha prior to 1821 is
correct.The Kanchi Peetadhiapthis had been at Kumbhakonam during this
period which fact is confirmed by these two 1800 AD Kumbhakonam
inscriptions.
could you please share
 These records are related to the grants which had been given to the kanchi
Kamkoti peetadhipathi Shankaracharya Swamy. While some records give the
narration for the expenditure incurred for the occasion.. the other give
detailed accounts of the events. The Vyasa pooja had been performed in
various places by the then Peetadhipathis.
According to these records,it was a custom that a representative of the
King  to participate with special vasthram and other offerings during such
occasions.He was known as "Madhyasthar" in the manuscripts.
Information with regard to the various vyasa poojas performed by the
Peetadhipathis at Jambhukeswaram, Kumbhakonam,Tiruvarur and other places
are found in these documents.
Do the manuscripts refer to
As already said the manusripts refer the Swamiji as the Kanchi Kamakoti
Shankaracharya at Kumbhakonam. Please note that when the Swamiji was in
other places the documents refer him only as the Kanchi Kamakoti
Shankaracharya camping at... (place).They don't mention any thing like
"......  of Kumbhakonam".
I have not read this book.
During 1801, Serfoji II had performed Kanakaabhishekam to Mahadevendra
Saraswathi IV at Kumbhakonam. His son SivajiII performed Kanakabhishekam to
Chandrasekharendra saraswathi V during 1833,1842 and 1850 at Kumbhakonam
and Tanjore.We could not find any record during Amarsingh's period.
of 1739 is too early for him, as Shahuji's mother was regent from 1737 to
1740,and Shahuji ruled 1740 - 1749. Is the above material a primary
quotation from the mss, or is it the author's/editor's reconstruction of
history? If the latter, he has made a mistake. If the former, there is room
for doubt.
Sorry Vidya. You are wrong. Ekoji II @ Bhava Saheb died in the year 1736AD.
His father Thukkoji also died in the same year.Then one sujan Bhai ascended
to the Tanjore throne.She was succeded by King Prathapa simha in 1739 AD
(Saka 1661). This information is confirmed by the Bhonsle vamsa Charithram
and other books. Pl. give the ref./nature of the primary source on which
you rely upon.
Thanks
BGS
