brahminhood."  It is not easy to de-brahmanize claims that the Vedas  (or
the SmRtis and the PurANas) are supra-human texts.  But although I agree
that it is not a purely brahminical phenomenon, it is clear that some
perceive indological ideas as an attack on brahmins.  (See, for instance,
the quotes in Palaniappan's message to this list on Thu, 13 Jul 2000
12:27:22 EDT).
VS:
 What is
Or by marrying them, or by stating that they follow orders from, or are
simply manifestations of the new ones.  Killing them has generally not been
the procedure in Indian traditions.
 VS:
Why the question?  Should an Indologist do something with the statement?
It is interesting, of course, and it indicates in which direction ideas are
moving today, but the origins of the SAvitR mantra are still Vedic (not
Hindu).
VS:
Yes, I agree, an identity crisis is at the root of the problem, but those
going through the crisis will usually be the more traditional conservative
ones.  Most of the modern day movements that are referred to as
fundamentalist are reactions to perceived or real threats to "traditional"
ideas and values.
VS:
I was referring to the MArkaNDeya episode in the Vanaparvan (MBh 3.186,
188; Cr.Ed.).  It is not Arjuna but the sage MArkaNDeya that describes
yugAnta.  This section has little to do with the rest of the narrative.
VS:
Yes, when I first prepared my previous message I wrote "a Brahmin who
behaves like a kSatriya" but then I took the second part out in order to
simplify the sentence.
It is, of course, noteworthy that Buddha, MahAvIra, RAma and KRSNa were all
kSatriyas, whereas Kalkin is a brahmin.
 VS:
Well, ParazurAma's role was to make it clear that kSatriyas must respect
brahmins.  As for the MahAbhArata and the RAmAyaNa, although kSatriya
dharma is fundamental to both, so is the need to respect brahmins,
especially in the Mbh.
VS:
The relationship between kSatriyas and brahmins as reflected in the
literature (Vedas, Epics, etc.) is a very important indological topic.
Please bear in mind that my post was not meant as a detailed analysis, I
merely wanted to draw attention to what I consider to be an interesting
parallelism.
Best regards,
Luis Gonzalez-Reimann
