bull on brahmanism
NG> The result is that the governing class in India today is a Brahmin-Bania
instead of Brahmin-Kshatriya combine as it used to be."
RB> This is is out-dated. The banias were responsible for raising money for
campaigns for the BJP in the late eighties and early nineties. Right now in
the very states where this applied there is no BJP govt in power or is
barely surviving. What has worked out recently for the ruling party are
strategic regional alliances and the stability card. People in tamil nadu
voted for the BJP even though they would not have them at the state level.
In any case the BJP is not a bastion for brahmanism.
NG> Mr. Gandhi is a Bania and also because he has realized that money
invested in Politics gives large dividends.
RB> Sure it shows he was pragmatic and interested in real results. One would
hope the "non brahman / brahman ruling elites would understand such things.
NG> .......What Congress and Gandhi Have Done to the Untouchables"
(published in 1945), Dr. B. R. Ambedkar writes, "History shows that the
Brahmin has always had other classes as his allies to whom he was ready to
accord the status of a governing class
RB> Oh come on " ready to accord the status....indeed " be realistic The
muslims did not ask the brahmans for permission. Shivaji used brahmans as a
means of  social and political recognition. Tell me who used who. A brahmans
role is to sanctify things and conduct ceremonies. For instance a pandit
ofifciating at a mariage ceremony does not say that he is against the
marriage. His permisson is not asked for...
Lets ask ourselves how the brahman came to acquire such so called power in
the first place. Dr. Ambedkar married a brahmana therby exhibiting a great
solidarity towards his own community. In any case why are his views the last
word. He was capable of being as biased and immature as anyone else and need
not always have been infallible.
I would like to point out that recent outbursts against brahmanism border on
ethnic slurs.
