Nationalisms
nanda chandran [SMTP:vpcnk at HOTMAIL.COM] skrev 7. august 2000 12:35:
Noone claimed it was. Apparently, you read very selectively, since I have
been repeating the errors of Europeans and Westerners ad nauseam.
I'll leave this to the Americans to answer.
Again, I'll leave this to the Spanish or Portuguese members of the list.
German bookstore are full of books on the holocaust. I don't know the
curriculum in German schools, but there is no lack of information about
Nazi history in German society. Those who are in denial for ideological
reasons are not so for lack of information.
Stalin's crimes were already denounced by Krustchev (pardon the probably
erronous spelling) in 1956. But you probably don't have to tell the
Russians about it in the schools. It is still within living memory.
a
in
This is at best a simplification of matters. Or have you overlooked the
fact that India has a runaway demography? And that the Indians have had
half a century to set things right? If children are starving in Indian
today, the British are not to blame. The Indian politicians have to carry
that responsibility themselves.
No protesting native Americans in America? Don't you read the papers?
I'll leave this to the British members of the list.
All this things are well known. Ever heard about Robin Hood and his merry
men fighting the evil Normans?
Are they making that claim?
As you would have noticed if you had read the papers, the Scots and the
Welsh have acquired a certain autonomy lately. And that the IRA are on the
verge of making peace.
Every objection you raise only proves your ignorance. Whether Europe is
unmatched for barbarism is of course a matter of debate, but I have
certainly not claimed that we were pillars of uprightness. I suggest that
you do some serious reading - perhaps take a history course - before you
raise this sort of objections.
Best regards,
Lars Martin Fosse
Dr. art. Lars Martin Fosse
Haugerudvn. 76, Leil. 114,
0674 Oslo
Norway
Phone: +47 22 32 12 19
Fax 1:  +47 22 32 12 19
Fax 2:  +47 85 02 12 50 (InFax)
Email: lmfosse at online.no
