Job offer: Language Specialist Urdu (fwd)
Re: Job offer: Language Specialist Urdu
Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products (L&H) is a global leader in advanced
speech and language solutions for computers, cars, telecommunications,
embedded products, consumer goods and the internet. The company makes the
speech user interface (SUI), the keystone of simple, convenient
interaction between humans and technology, and uses advanced translation
technology to break down cultural barriers. The L&H team counts more than
5000 people worldwide. The headquarters are located in Ieper, Belgium.
For the development of Urdu language and speech technology, Lernout &
Hauspie is currently looking for:
                    Urdu Language Specialists
                     for the Corporate R&D Division
                    located in Ieper (Belgium)
Function:
-You will work within a multi-disciplinary team of linguists, engineers and
programmers on the development of
software systems in the field of Speech, Artificial Intelligence and Language.
-In the startup phase, your tasks will typically include: basic phonetic and
language study in view of technology
development and assessment of third party providers of data and/or technology.
-You will be involved in all aspects of the development life cycle and focus on
system specification and design,
implementation of linguistic rule sets, creation of acoustic and lexical
databases, grapheme to phoneme conversion,
prosodic analysis, software testing and quality control, preparation of
documentation.
-Training is given both on-the-job and through lectures and technical
documentation. Dedicated development
environments are provided which allow language specialists to focus on their
content: formalizing linguistic knowledge.
-You will report to the group or project manager.
Profile:
-university degree in philology or linguistics, or equivalent;
-(near) native Urdu speaker with a conversational level of English;
-solid grounding in linguistic theory;
-good knowledge of and/or experience in one or more of the following areas:
speech processing, natural language
processing (NLP), computational linguistics, programming, other languages;
-ability to work in a team and independently;
If you are interested in this job opportunity and you believe to fulfil the
required profile, we have to meet each
other. Please send your detailed resume to:
     Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products
        Personnel Department
     Attn. Pierre Eggermont
     Flanders Language Valley, 50
        B-8900 Ieper
        BELGIUM
To learn more about Lernout & Hauspie and its products, visit our homepage
<http://www.lhs.com>. You may also want to send an e-mail to
<mailto:job-announce at lhs.be> to obtain a list of all current job openings
at L&H.
 SYLVIA JOOS
 Language Group Manager
 Linguistic Engineering Division
 Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products nv     Phone  +32 57 22 8888
 Flanders Language Valley, 50       Fax    +32 57 20 8489
 B-8900 Ieper, Belgium              Email  sylvia.joos at lhs.be
