Evidence for the Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir (fwd)
I have been asked to forward this information, and I do for general
information, but without subscribing to the opinions it promotes.
The home page of this organization contains such resonant metaphors as
 "Today, our dear Mother, Maa Bharat, is fighting for survival. Countless
 separatist strikes from all sides threaten to tear Her apart limb from
 limb. The vile, insidious disease of corruption, spread by self-serving
 politicians is spreading its venomous juices slowly through Her body."
which may serve to give an sense of the orientation of this material.
Dominik Wujastyk
Founder, INDOLOGY list
Evidence for the Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir
Dear sir,
Please forward the following message to your List.
The archaeological, historical and legal evidence presented by Vishva
Hindu Parishad (VHP) to the Government of India (on December 23, 1990)
in support of their claim that the Babri Masjid was constructed after
demolishing a Hindu temple at that site has been reproduced in toto at
the following website.
http://www.geocities.com/hindu-rashtra/ramjanmabhoomi
The website also contains the entire text of the VHP's rejoinder
(submitted to the Government of India on January 6, 1991) to the
documents provided by the All India Babri Masjid Action Committee
(AIBMAC).
The website will eventually also contain the following:
1. Evidence offered by AIBMAC in support of their position.
2. Rejoinder of "eminent" historians to the VHP documents.
3. Details of the 200 artifacts of the ancient temple unearthed below
the structure of the demolished mosque on December 6, 1992.
4. Legal opinions on the matter.
5. Additional historical material of relevance like the Kapad Dwar map
collection of the Maharaja of Jaipur.
6. Opinions of renowned archaeologists and historians (like B B Lal,
Iravatham Mahadevan etc.)
7. A detailed bibliography.
Please stay tuned. Any suggestions and corrections are most welcome.
Sincerely,
The 'Nation of Hindutva' Project
Do You Yahoo!?
Send instant messages & get email alerts with Yahoo! Messenger.
http://im.yahoo.com/
