RAJARAM EPISODE
I'm glad that your concern is not political. But why pick
Rajaram alone for this? If the colonists and the leftists hadn't
distorted history according to their political needs, a Rajaram
would never have arisen today. If your concern is indeed genuine
why not officially slam Max Muller and Romila Thapar and her ilk
and help shape a non-biased version of Indian history?
If what you say is true there would have never been a problem
with Ayodhya in the first place. But as somebody recently pointed
out the leftist establishment went out of their way to deny it.
So why don't you condemn them? Why is S Farmer going ga-ga about
Romila Thapar's endorsement of their "discovery"?
Let's not jump from one topic to the other. Let's concentrate on
the Hindu-Muslim conflict. And please refrain from making uninformed
accusations about matters where you've little knowledge of. That
the BJP's new chief is a Dalit and it was this party which first
protested against the "purification" ceremony in Guruvaayoor temple
recently is itself enough to dismiss your allegations.
Now you have made my hair stand up! It has become quite fashionable to
draw parallels between the facist and racist movements in Europe and
what's currently happening in India. Before you let your imagination
run wild, atleast make an effort to understand what the conflict in
India is about.
Forget even this! Help us get a unbiased version of history and Rajaram
and Co (if they're indeed as bad as you make them out to be) will not
have any cause to fight for. Ignoring the main problem and taking
potshots at Rajaram isn't going to help India.
This is the typical leftist argument - isn't food and material properity
more important than all these?
That the soul needs its own nourishment is something beyond the ken of
Marxists. But who can blame them when their master himself, though claiming
to be a student of "that mighty thinker", didn't have the intellect to go
beyond Hegel's dialectic!
Likewise we're not asking back territory from Pakistan. Let us just have
our most important temples back.
If you're unable to understand our standpoint, I do not blame you. Mere
knowledge of Sanskrit or Indian literature does not make one a Hindu
nor will it enable you to truly understand the Hindu mind.
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
http://profiles.msn.com.
