SV: Classical languages of India
'>'I don't have a clear-cut definition at hand, but I could suggest one:
'>'
'>'"A classical language is a language with an ancient literature of
'>'outstanding quality that through a considerable period of time has played
'>'an important part in the history, literature and culture of several peoples
'>'that otherwise may use different mother tongues."
'>'
'>'This definition would include languages such as Greek, Latin, Arabic,
'>'Persian, and Sanskrit as well as Classical Chinese. It would exclude Tamil,
'>'Old Norse, Old German, Anglo-Saxon English etc. in spite of the fact that
'>'these languages have old and venerable literatures. Classical languages are
'>'normally used across time and space by educated people and serve as link
'>'languages and carriers of ideas with some claim to universality: e.g. Greek
'>'and Latin for Christianity, Arabic for Islam, Sanskrit for Hinduism etc.
    Even by your own definition, Tamil will eminently qualify as
    classical language. I wonder what aspect of your definition
    Tamil does not qualify !
    Also I wonder whether you can cite Old Norse, Old German and
    Anglo-Saxan English literature comparable to Tamil before
    500 C.E. ? By this question, I don't imply that none exists, but
    I would like to see some comparable literature cited for the Sangam
    corpus (just the surving part) written by some 500 poets
    (including many lady poets),
    the great ThirukkuRaL, songs like Kaniyan PoonkunRan's 'yaathum oorE',
    epics like Silappathikaaram, ManimEklai,Ciivaka CinthaamaNi,
    Grammatical works like Tholkaappiyam,
    musical works etc. There are no works like Thevaaram and Thiruvaasagam
    and Alvaar's songs in Sanskrit. Are there works like Thirumanthiram
    in Old Norse, Old German, Anglo-Saxan English ?
    Tamil works had been translated into numerous world languages
    over long period of time. The Zen Buddhism and many aspects of
    Buddhism, Jainism and Hinduism come from Tamil Nadu and much of
    it no doubt requires to be researched.
    Thanks
    C.R.Selvakumar
'>'
'>'I offer myself up for criticism.
'>'
'>'Best regards,
'>'
'>'Lars Martin Fosse
