From suvidya at WORLDNET.ATT.NET  Wed Sep 27 19:51:11 2000
From: suvidya at WORLDNET.ATT.NET (Arun Gupta)
Date: Wed, 27 Sep 00 20:51:11 +0100
Subject: Rajaram unrepentent!
Message-ID: <161227061900.23782.14143867330692484826.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Professor Farmer :

Points well taken.  I will point out that eminently sane people,
e.g., the founder of the Swadhyaya movement, believe that there
are major distortions in Indian history as currently written.

Also, I hope all legitimate researchers also take
note of the following ideas and fight it as well
( the complete article from which the quote is taken is posted on
http://www.chowk.com/bin/showr.cgi?f=rkhan_sep1400&n=00#reply550 )

Quote :

For example, in the presidential address to the Indian History Congress of
1964, it was announced that:

We must get to the spirit of the movement and the soul of India with an
approach that will help surmount the danger of communal, regional,
linguistic and class hatreds that beset history writing.

History has a mission and obligation to lead humanity to a higher ideal and
nobler future...The historian cannot shirk this responsibility by burying
his head in the false dogma of objectivity. History must not call to memory
ghastly aberrations of human nature, of dastardly crimes, of divisions and
conflicts, of degeneration and decay but of the higher values of life, of
traditions of culture and the nobler deeds of sacrifice and devotion to the
service of humanity. The facts of Indian history and the process of its
march have to be judged by the criterion of progress towards liberty,
morality and opportunities for self-expression...The reason for omission is
that such things bring in unhealthy trends which militate against the course
of national solidarity or international peace.

End quote

I hope that Rajaram's falsification would not be acceptable if it were in an
international socialist or secular humanist cause.  Academic truth should be
the only reason for your joining the battle, not anti-fascism.

As you may have inferred already, I do not see the battle in India as being
between truth and lies; I see it as being between two sets of liars -- the
entrenched establishment and the set of rascals who would replace it.
I suspect a great many Indians see it the same way as well.

It now comes out from the "secular" establishment that yes, there are a
great many mistakes in Indian history textbooks that they've been aware of
for a long time (inexcusable); but that that does not justify introducing
further mistakes (absolutely correct).  But this admission happened only
because of pressure from the Hindutvavadis.

-arun gupta




