"Buddha" before the Pali Canon?
A prominent Vedicist:
It isn't anything like as simple of this. But I would still take the
view that the Pali texts are an older recension than anything else
available to us in an Indic dialect. In truth, the only other large
body of material available to us is that found in the
Muulasarvaastivaadin Vinaya texts and these are plainly considerably
later as a recension. Obviously individual texts and passages have to
be argued on a case by case basis.
Steve Farmer:
I don't find Vetter's arguments very convincing.
'Invariably' ? This is an extremely strong claim. So strong that one
example is sufficient to refute it. How about Alexander ? Can we
conclude from the proliferation of the Alexander legend that we
should have 'deep scepticism' as to the historicity of Alexander ? I
think not.
There are certainly groups of scholars who _construct_ models on
these lines, but it seems to me that they too are based upon
particular agenda and should be taken with a large dose of salt.
This is just wrong. These redatings are nothing to do with the Pali
Canon which doesn't exist before the early first century B.C. at the
very earliest. They are not even redatings of the earliest texts
contained in the Pali Canon, since such issues are mostly not being
addressed. They are attempting to locate the date of the historical
figure whose place of death was marked by Asoka in the third century
B.C. with a pillar at Lumbini. Note that there may have been people
alive at this time who had spoken to people who met the Buddha in
their youth.
This is particularly true if one follows Bechert himself who adopts a
very late date 'close to Alexander' (or something like that) or
follows the traditional Sarvaastivaadin dating uncritically as do
Charles Willemen and company. In other words Asoka Moriya put up his
pillar (or inscribed it) about a century and a half after the death
of the individual recognized as the 'Buddha' by his followers.
Most participants in Bechert's Symposium preferred a dating closer to
400 B.C. or a little earlier.
This is really a debate about the language of the earliest Buddhist
literature, but it is more convenient to refer to 'the Buddha'. But
it is important to note here that there is actually no real doubt as
to what 'language' the 'Buddha' spoke. The debate is about the
precise 'dialect' or 'dialects' spoken in the area of modern Bihar in
the fifth and fourth centuries B.C.
In other words whatever exact dialects were spoken there is no doubt
that they were at least as close to the language of the earlier texts
of the Pali Canon as the language in which I am writing this is to
that in which Shakespeare wrote. In some ways the dialect of the Pali
Canon can be compared to that of modern editions of Shakespeare which
do not spell at all as he did. In effect it is a modernized dialect,
not a different language at all.
It would be a mistake to insist on 'well-controlled evidence' in this
context. That would simply amount to a concealed argument from
silence. The kind of criteria you seem to want to use are those
appropriate to a time and place where we have a lot of data. If a
figure supposed to have existed in 16th century Europe is not
mentioned until the 18th century we would rightly be very suspicious,
especially if he is claimed to have been well-known, etc. At that
time we have a lot of information and the absence of evidence is very
significant. At other times when we have very little data mere
absence of evidence tells us little and even priority may be an
artifact of mere chance survivals.
The term Paa.li for the language of these texts is an innovation
dating from around the 17th century. Before that the language was
referred to as Maagadha-bhaasaa and this is certainly the correct
name for it - in use for nearly two millennia, if not longer. (The
fact that various grammarians use the name Maagadhii in other ways is
irrelevant to this.)
Lance Cousins
HEADINGTON, UK
CURRENT EMAIL ADDRESS:
selwyn at ntlworld.com
