Hinduism
Dear Stephen,
Yes, I think we're going around in circles. Probably we've agreed to
disagree :-) Anyway I too wish to make a few points after which if
you wish we can abandon the subject.
If this is regarding the significance of the anatta doctrine - which in
my opinion is only a negative approach of the Atman doctrine of the
Upanishads, then we can open a fresh thread on this and discuss it out.
My point is not to revise the classification just for the sake of revision.
It is just that the label "Hinduism" which bunches together various
religious sects of India and excludes certain other sects is inherently
flawed. If we sort this out, much of the confusion would disappear.
Not a problem at all as I've already expressed. Just that we need to
review the label "Hinduism".
I've no agenda except to clear up distortions.
If he can prove it based on reason and factual evidence, I'll be more
than happy to accept it.
Except that I question the labels "Hinduism" and "Hindus" itself.
Yup, you've a point there.
Thanks for the insider information.
"Non-authoritarian", "structured path" etc implies the cerebral bent,
doesn't it?
I'll take this with a pinch of salt.
Only to show that Asian Buddhists would thus have a tie to India,
which Westerners wouldn't.
I think you misunderstand me. I'm not saying that all Buddhist everywhere
SHOULD identify themselves as Hindus. Only that it would not be
INAPPROPRIATE if they should WISH to identify themselves so (like
Ven Tantra whose view you didn't accept) for the original
Buddhists were themselves so.
I do not have books at me with present. But isn't there a famous
instance where a brAhmana rebukes Gautama for being a low born
Kshatriya. And in reply Gautama rebukes him for not knowing the
truth about his own origins - according to the Compassionate One
the brahmana was born of a wedlock between a brahmana and a low
caste servant maid. In contrast Gautama extols his own family line
saying that at one point in time when his branch of the family
was in exile and didn't have any SAkhyas around, his ancestors
rather than taking mates from other races, committed incest to
preserve the purity of their race! And Gautama says this with
obvious pride!
If you want I can get the reference as to the NikhAya in which this
incident is related.
Well, you don't seem to be too familiar with the PAli canon. Give me
some time and I'll get you the references. Or perhaps Lance Cousins
or others familiar with the PAli canon can lend a hand?
Pardoned. Dvijas are those who are twice born i.e, eligible to study the
Vedas - all the top three castes were eligible - brAhmana, kshatriya and
Vaishya. See the number of kshatriya teachers in the Upanishads. So
Gautama was a dvija too and the reason he has the gotram name "Gautama".
If you want to go into a detailed analysis of the relationship between
the Buddhist anatta and the Upanishadic Atman doctrine, let me know.
Maybe we should start a seperate Indian Philosophy discussion list. Any
takers?
It is my honour to have exchanged views with such a qualified person. As for
me, I'm just a student of Indian Philosophy for the last four years - no
academic qualifications though and little interested in it, for my interest
is more spiritual than technical. But then the test of knowledge - "As the
wise test gold by cutting and rubbing ..." - should be based on reason and
textual knowledge, no?
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
http://profiles.msn.com.
