Asa and Kashmir Johal chair at CISAR
Fellow Asianists,
        Would you please circulate the following invitation for
applications for the Asa and Kashmir Johal Chair in India Research.
        This was advertised last year but was withdrawn because of
administrative problems.  This year we are all clear.
        Thank you.
Mandakranta Bose
Director
Centre for India and South Asia Research
Institute of Asian Research
University of British Columbia, Vancouver BC
mbose at interchange.ubc.ca
Phone:  (604) 822-6463
FAX:  (604) 822-5207
            The University of British Columbia,
        Asa and Kashmir Johal Chair in India Research.
        Applications are invited for a newly-endowed Chair in India
Research.  The appointment, beginning in July 1, 2001, will be made jointly
by the Institute of Asian Research and the Department of Anthropology and
Sociology, and the successful applicant will contribute equally to both
units.  It is expected that the appointment will be at the Associate
Professor level, but for an exceptional candidate it may be at a higher
rank.  The successful applicant will have a PhD., an ongoing programme of
research and publication in social/cultural anthropology of India, and
demonstrated excellence in undergraduate and graduate teaching and
supervision.  He or she must have conducted ethnographic research in India
and have competence in at least one of the languages of India apart from
English.
        In accordance with Canadian immigration requirements, priority will
be given to Canadian citizens and permanent residents.  The University of
British Columbia hires on the basis of merit and is committed to employment
equity.  We encourage all qualified persons to apply.  The position is
subject to final budget approval.
        Inquiries and applications, including names and addresses of three
referees, curriculum vitae, sample research materials and a summary of
current and future research interests should be sent by December 15, 2000
to: Secretary to the Search Committee, Dept. of Anthropolgy and Sociology,
the University of British Columbia, 6303 N.W.Marine Dr., Vancouver, B.C. V6T
1Z1.
