Hinduism
Dear Nanda Chandram
By and large, this discussion does not seem to be getting us very far
and does not seem to be very academic in content now so I hesitate to
continue.  I have made my views quite clear but I am also constantly
being accused of views which I do not hold nor advocate.  Moreover,
your postings have gradually become more and more "ad hominem" so
there are a just few points I would like to address and then leave.
So ....
Nanda Chandran wrote:
where
today) from
about
This discussion is becoming somewhat circular -- I think I quite well
understand the point you are making but I just happen not to agree
with you.
singing praises
be
If that is now your position I am more than happy to concur with you.
But for a Buddhist to acknowledge India's undoubted and obvious
contribution to culture and religion is not the same as accepting your
revised religious classificatory system.   If you would be a bit more
specific in your definition of Hinduism, we might make some progress
but rather conveniently you wrote earlier that Hinduism defies
definition.
Buddhist,
of
Ah, here we go again !   How do you arrive at that conclusion ?   I am
quite happy to "identify" with the people of India -- why shouldn't
I ?   I merely repeat the point that I personally (like other many
Buddhists I have met) see myself as a Buddhist and not as a Hindu --
not at least in the general modern sense of the word.
That is not how I have been reading your postings -- with friends like
you, who needs enemies, as they say !   Hinduism may or may not be
"antagonistic/alien" to Buddhism, there may be much common ground
between them, they may share a common background, may have been
developed by people living in ancient / medieval India, some Indian
Buddhists may have been brahmins by birth, some Buddhists like Ven.
Tantra may be happy to call himself a Hindu (that's up to him) -- but
all that does not mean that you have any right to define the religious
affiliations of others to suit your own agendas.  Raimundo Pannikar (a
Christian writer) believes that Hinduism is a covert "precursor" of
Christianity and thus can be subsumed into Christianity.  Obviously he
says this on somewhat different grounds, but if one were to say that
Hindus are really Christians but just don't want to admit it, I
imagine that you perhaps not be entirely happy about this.
No, it is not.  Your initial premise was that Buddhists are really
Hindus.  As I keep repeating, if you mean "Hindu" in the obselete
sense of an inhabitant of India, then that is a truism.  If you mean
the religious phenomenon that is currently labelled "Hinduism", I beg
to differ -- except in the common-sense manner in which Lance Cousins
desribes.
anything
Well, that's Americans for you :)   I only know about European
Buddhists.
Can't agree with you.  My experience of first, second and now some
third generation Western Buddhists indicates that they are quite
"devout" -- perhaps they are just a bit more reserved about showing
it.
etc.
Well, so does every other religion that I know of -- except of course,
Buddhists reject the personal creator God concept or are you imposing
this on us as well ??
Many people say to me that their attraction to Buddhism lies in its
non-authoritarian
approach, the structured spiritual path absent from popular
Christianity, the possibility of liberation through personal effort
etc etc.
I
OK.  You're wrong.
I was not talking about Tibetans or Burmese per se -- I should have
thought that was pretty obvious.
I did not say "Christian" names.  Many Chinese in Hong Kong and
elsewhere adopt Western first names for social / cultural reasons.
Again you contradict yourself -- in earlier messages you were
especially emphasizing the Indic cultural baggage that went with
Buddhism.
That's up to them to decide, not you.   I have also met people who
define themselves as Jewish Buddhists, Eastern Orthodox Buddhism,
Catholic Buddhism, Sufi Buddhist and so forth.  That's THEIR choice !
Where ?
of
Which ones ?
etc
Granted.  But that still does not make him a "Hindu" -- why not say he
is a Jain ?  But I forget -- Jains are also Hindus, aren't they !
Pardon my ignorance, but I though "dvija" meant one was a brahmin.
You were saying (probably correctly) that the Buddha was a k.satriya
earlier so when did this transmutation occur ?
Sorry, I should have said "even a cursory study".
Ditto !
Ah !  Now you want my CV !  Are you going to offer me a job ?  I think
this request is quite pathetic but to satisfy your curiosity:
I became a Buddhist over 35 years ago.
I have studied with numerous Thai, Srilankan, Chinese, Tibetan and
Japanese masters.
I was a monk in Japan for several years -- I lived there for 10
years -- translated from Japanese, I am a "dharma-aacaarya" in their
terms.
I have completed PhD studies on early Tantric Buddhism.
I have probably read more Buddhist texts than you ever will -- simply
because I also read (and speak fluently in some cases) Tibetan,
Chinese, Japanese, Mongolian, Sanskrit and I have a bit of Pali apart
from the usual European languages.
I have written over 12 books on Buddhism and other subjects that
interest me -- look up Amazon.com for some of them if you want.
I quietly engage in textual research, critical editions and
translations of Buddhist texts -- sadly not too many published yet but
that's a problem of commercial publishing.
I have taught classes in Buddhism and Tibetan at the University of
London for a number of years and have advised MA / PhD students.
I have also taught at several major UK Buddhist centres.
I was President of the European Buddhist Union for several years.
I have participated in the British Interfaith Dialogue Council.
As for my non-academic Buddhist affiliations, I dislike labels as you
might have noticed but my primary "allegiance" is Mahayana /
Vajrayana -- I told you this before but obviously you missed it.
Does that satisfy you ??   So what is your esteemed level of knowledge
on the subject ?
Best wishes,
Stephen Hodge
Dept of Religious Studies,
Birkbeck College,
University of London
