SV: SV: SV: Kinship systems
At 10:17 AM 10/18/00 +0100, you wrote:
Can you please give evidence/reference to show that caste or group
consciousness predate this period? I thought it was all tribal
consciousness in 500 BC. I didn't know that caste existed by then.
Why do you want to deny the Dravidian commonness? What is wrong with that?
I think you are reading between the lines and going overboard in your
anxiety to deny the Dravidian identity.  Your condescending tone above
clearly indicates so.
What would you say about Indian identity? Are you not an Indian? If one can
talk about an Indian community because you have few similar customs,
outlook, institutions, etc. with few others, then why  can not one talk
about a Dravidian Identity?
  I can think of few customs which are common to Dravidians.
1. Wide prevalence of cross-cousin marriages
2. Worship of Mother Goddess, especially Kali (=KoRRavai), Iyyanaar like
deities, etc
3. Prevalence of Parisam (instead of dowry) among castes who have not
adopted Brahminized practices.
4. Importance given to maternal uncle rather than father in many family
rites and rituals.
5. Tradition of keeping a few weapons like spear, arivAl, trishul etc as a
family property handed over through generations and bringing them out for
showing on few solemn occasions (after polishing them, oiling them and
garlanding them) to show valor.
There are many more of these practices. In the modern times, of course,
Brahminized practices have intruded so much that identifying older
Dravidian practices may prove to be difficult. ( For example, with the
Maharashtra practice of Ganesh Chadhurthi, now being propagated through-out
the south very much by the Hindutvadhis, I wonder what happens to our own
ThEr and theppam festivals in different places. After some time somebody
may say Ganesh Chadhurthi is Pan -Indian and Tamilians do not have any
religious festival on their own. It has already happened to the Karthikai
festival in Tamil Nadu. Now Deepavali which is a North Indian variation of
Karthikai) has become more important than Karthikai proper in Tamil Nadu.
Karthikai theepam is declining gradually. Why festivals? Even our own
Dravidian religions of Saivam and VaiNavam have been subsumed/ submerged
into the so-called Hindu religion/ SanAthana Dharma) .
Still I am completely at a loss to see your response. Have you not watched
or at least read about tribal practices even now exhibited, despite the
onslaught of pan-Indian ones? There are so many common things prevalent in
the four southern states and also few regions in MP, Orissa, and Bihar
(where other Dravidian tribes are residing even now.)
What are you driving at? You say we are only Indian and not
Dravidian?  Will not a Dutchman or a German feel some commonality among
themselves?
A German is 'Deutch' proper, has a few Germanic features sharing with
Nordics, Danes, Dutch, Friscian, English and others, with still
broader  European attributes and some scanty Indo-European commonalities.
Likewise, I feel I am a Tamil, have a few common Dravidian features, with
some Indian attributes, and some stray Asian Commonalities.
Who is in Maya?
With Regards,
RM.Krishnan
