Buddhists and others, wasRe: RAJARAM EPISODE
Samar Abbas <abbas at IOPB.RES.IN> wrote:
 Just because a book says something does not make it
 true. You may even find books arguing for a flat-earth
 or alien-abduction.
   Suggesting that a book praised at an avowed
 anti-Hindu site is exhaustive and more believable
 without any strong evidence
 may be indicative of an anti-Hindu world-view.
   Since you suggest that Muslims' interaction with
 Buddhists in India would have been better than with
 "bad" Hindus, here is what three authors have to day
 about Muslim-Buddhist interaction in India:
   1) Bhikshu Sangharakshita in the chapter "Buddhism", in
      the book "A Cultural History of India", ed. A. L.
      Basham, page 99.
    "When these centres - Nalanda, Vikramasila,
     Odantapuri, and others - were destroyed by the fury of
     the Muslim invader, and the native kings who might have
     sponsored their restoration were replaced by rulers with
     an uncompromising and alien faith, Buddhism quietly
     disappeared."
  2) Romila Thapar, "A History of India", page 263-264.
     "The coming of Islam was the final blow. Buddhism and
     Islam, both being institutionalized, proselytizing
     religions, attracted the same potential following.
     This led to a strong antagonism between the two
     and the attacks on the monasteries resulted in an
     exodus of Buddhists from eastern India to south-east i
     Asia. Islam found its largest following in previously
     Buddhist areas of India, the north-west and the east."
  3) A. L. Basham, "The Wonder That Was India", page 266.
     "In the first rush of the Muslim advance down the Ganges
      Nalanda and other great monasteries of Bihar were sacked,
      libraries were burnt, and monks were put to the sword.
      The survivors fled to the mountains of Nepal and
      Tibet, and Buddhism in India was dead."
    The page nos are from the copies of the books that I have.
  Some editions may have different page numbers.
 :- Pankaj
Get Your Free Email At, http://www.rediffmail.com
For fabulous shopping deals visit: http://www.rediff.co.in/shopping/index.html
