RAJARAM EPISODE
On 2 Oct 2000, nanda chandran wrote:"Without ... brahmins ...it is
 The Rajaram episode has once again brought forth the much-discussed topic
of Hindu-Buddhist conflict. However, all dispute on this topic can now
be put to rest, with the most detailed book ever devoted to this question
having been published : -
   `Decline and Fall of Buddhism' by Dr. K. Jamanadas,
    http://dalitstan.org/books/decline/
 It seems the fall of Buddhism led to virtually all problems of modern
India (quotations from the book):
  FALL OF SCIENCE: " Science was on zenith in Buddhist India and ...
  Brahmins purposefully caused its fall to uphold their own supremacy
  after the fall of Buddhism."
Thus, illiteracy, poverty and decline of science resulted from the fall of
Buddhism.
  LANGUAGE PROBLEM: "After the fall of Buddhism, Brahmanism not only
  divided the people into numerous castes ... but also divided the whole
  country into small segments ...on the basis of language."
The present situation of conflict between states on the basis of language
and consequently secessionism, is hence also due to fall of Buddhism.
  FOREIGN INVASIONS: "the assimilation of foreigners into Indian
  society took place not because of Brahmanism but because of the tenets
  of Buddhism which preached equality, liberty and brotherhood"
This explains why assimilation did not take place after the 8th century.
So Portuguese and Muslims were not assimilated.
  HINDU-MUSLIM CONFLICT: "Hindu Muslim Conflict would not have been
  there if Buddhism was alive at the time of Muslim invasion."
Because Muslims would have been assimilated if Buddhism existed.
  NON-ASSIMILATION OF MUSLIMS: "because of the decline of Buddhism
  in India after the tenth century A. D., the mass of early medieval
  early Islamic followers in India could not be assimilated and digested
  by Indian Society."
This is a suitable explanation for why the Parthains, Sakas, etc. were
assimilated but not the Muslims.
  FOREIGN INVASIONS:
  "The north-western region of India was the gateway of all invaders and
  here it was that the Brahmans had one of their most important
  strongholds for many centuries, holding constant communication with
  foreigners such as the Greeks, the Turks, the Scythians, the Chinese and
  the Huns."  [  http://dalitstan.org/books/decline/decline03.html ]
This is the reason why so many waves of outsiders continued to invade
India.
  STATUS OF WOMEN: The status of women was high in the Buddhist age, but
decline along with Buddhism until finally, Sati, Dowry, etc. were
re-introduced.
  KULINISM: "How this was created to increase the population
  who would be willing to accept the supremacy of Brahmins."
Likewise, Devadasism, Dowry, Sati, Sambandhamm Kashmir etc. are discussed
in great detail, and shown to be the result of the fall of Buddhism.
Virtually all civilization of ancient North India (barring the indigenous
Dravidian cultures of the South) was apparently the creation of Buddhists.
Samar
