From saf at SAFARMER.COM  Mon Oct 23 05:58:03 2000
From: saf at SAFARMER.COM (Steve Farmer)
Date: Sun, 22 Oct 00 22:58:03 -0700
Subject: "Science" in India
Message-ID: <161227062908.23782.16961837226182746338.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

What a surprise after returning for the weekend! A few quick
notes, hopefully ending this thread:

Dominik Wujastyk writes:

> At base, what Farmer is trying to do is to find for himself some way of
> understanding how Rajaram, Kak, and others can write history that is so at
> variance with the standard model, and is based on poor evidence,
> misleading argumentation, and so forth.  How can someone do something so
> inexplicable?

Dominik characterizes my motives perfectly. I'd like to add that
I think that the sources of Rajaram's errors are radically
different from Kak's, as Michael Witzel and I suggested in our
FRONTLINE article.

David Salomon writes:

> It should by now be obvious that poking a jackbooted fascist
> with a stick is a risky business.  Fascists are brutal but they
> must have their historical myths, and they value compliant
> "scientists" who will give their myths respectability.
....
> The question should not be why are Farmer and Witzel pursuing
> this matter, but why are Indian scientists so silent in their
> support?  Have they been intimidated?

Thanks much to David and others for their moral support. The fact
that this is risky business certainly doesn't mean that scholars
should be silent. Nor, so far as native Indologists go -- if not
scientists -- we shouldn't forget that Iravatham Mahadevan has
offered his strong support for Rajaram's debunking, as has Romila
Thapar, and many other native scholars on this List.

Vidyasankar Sundaresan writes:

> Now we have Farmer insulting an entire
> population and an entire nation,

Ridiculous. Valerie Roebuck expresses my motives perfectly:

> I don't think Steve Farmer was insulting anybody--just questioning the
> quality of certain systems of education, surely a legitimate concern of
> academics everywhere?

Vidyasankar Sundaresan writes further:

> I invite Steve Farmer, or indeed, anybody on this list, to show that
