clarity /new project
RE: Opaqueness and Dr Witzel/Dr Farmer project.
Dear Dr Wujastyk
Thank you for using the guillotine, which I truly welcome. I was wondering
how long it would be before you acted, but you have a difficult function -
when do you call a halt ?
I accept your warning in the spirit it is intended.
I agree, my reference was cryptic It should not have been opaque.
The project reference was to the Dr Farmer?s postings  on the e groups ?
Indic traditions list including his posting  # 1093 of Oct 14 2000. There
has been discussion on this on that list (acrimonious at times, and I have
objected to that type behavior there and on the Indian Civilizations list.)
Referring to his collaboration with Dr Witzel and others, the scholar
writes ? the next decade may well trigger a deep revolution in our
understanding of the evolution of ? the higher? human traditions in
general. These are not Indian issues but human issues, very exciting indeed?
I have supported this project, and voiced my support on that list.
I make no comment as to why the list member would not bring this project to
this list?s attention.
Expecting that the scholars would focus on this project,and not continue to
flog dead horses, I was taken aback with the renewed battle in the media,
and hence my cryptic comment , inconsiderable disappointment at the turn in
events.
I am not the first list person to wonder as to what is going on. Other list
members have wondered too.
Re you?re warning;
For the past few years,( and that was my first post)  I have with interest
followed your list, and watched you try and do a difficult job in
moderating it. I do not wish to make it more difficult. Equally I too get
distressed at the acrimonious tones, and the members leaving the list. The
discussion is less rich than it was. To me this list was and is  an
opportunity to see what dedicated academics were thinking and writing on.
For me, this is not and never was a general interest list, but one reserved
for academic scholarly discussion( for the rest us, it was a list where one
could 'lurk", and watch with pleasure the high level of intellectual debate
and wonder at the dedication and knoeledge the scholars brought to the
field. It was not a matter of what position a scholar took.
If my comment helped end a fruitless thread, it will not have been wasted.
I hope this list comes back to its level, so that we can  all enjoy it and
learn from it.
If I made your function more difficult with my cryptic comment, I apologize
and I hope you accept.
My views on the need for civilized discussions are clear and on the other
two lists. Members are welcome to read them and make up their own minds.
A longish post. I apologize for that too.( on a lighter note - I wish my
shorter post had sufficed)
For me the subject is closed.
Regards
Ravi Chaudhary.
