Rv/Mittani
Dear listmembers,
This is an obvious mixture of facts and fiction, and I would need weeks to
correct even parts of it on the basis of my limited knowledge. First of
all, those who want to write about Syro-Mesopotamia should learn languages
like Sumerian, Akkadian, Hurrian, Urartean, Hittite, Hebrew, Kassite (!),
and keep themselves updated on the thousands of archaeological reports from
Syro-Mesopotamian sites. Let us find the facts first, let us sort out the
"hard" facts, let us respect them, and then discuss if any conclusions can
be drawn. Most important in this respect is that except for the few
possibly IA names (mostly so garbled that many etymologies are possible)
and a very few appellatives, there are as yet no archaeological traces,
such as temples, images of gods etc., of an Indo-Aryan presence in the
Mittani heartland, and probably no genuine IA place names anywhere near
Syro-Mesopotamia (more about this another time) until Iranian times. The
Mittani temple excavated at Tell Brak is Syrian, Sau$tattar's seal, as well
as other royal seals, is Syrian, written in Sumerian (DUMU for "son of")
with Syrian religious symbols. The Hurrian, Sumerian, Akkadian and Hebrew
names of the horse were not borrowed from Indo-Aryan. If anything is an old
canard, this must be it. The Luwianized word a$$o$$anni is, as far as I can
see, a Hurrian word made from Hurrian e$$e, with Luwian a- for Hurrian e-,
(= horse, pronounced "ethe") plus a morpheme -(o)$$e- denoting collectivity
or "place where", plus the Hurrian nominalizer -(a)nni, here denoting a
profession. It would mean something like "person in charge of the horses,
or, of the "horse place", "stable". (See also Ivanov's article about "Horse
Symbols and the Name of the Horse in Hurrian" in BIBLIOTHECA MESOPOTAMICA,
Vol. 26, valuable, though speculative in some respects). For Kassite names,
see Annelies Kammenhuber, DIE ARIER IM VORDEREN ORIENT.
Best wishes
Bjarte Kaldhol,
Oslo
unknown
'grey'
'seven',
'bracelet'
knowledge
