Indo-Aryan words in Hurrian
Dear listmembers,
I very much appreciated George Thompson's contribution to this discussion
and have little to add, except that we should avoid the unwarranted use of
expressions like "Indo-Aryan presence", if a physical presence of
Indo-Aryans in Mittani is meant.
But here is some more "food for thought":
King George VI was not a Greek, and even if he might have used some
(Latinized) Greek words, this would not make him a Greek. Nor would I say
that Hittite texts are immediately relevant to Hurrian studies, unless they
are bilingual, or in other ways might help to clarify the meanings of
Hurrian words.
We do not know much about Kikkuli's background, though his name (elsewhere
unattested) appears to be Hurrian and related to eastern names like Kikki,
Kikkabu (Nuzi), Kikkija (an early Hurrian (?) king of Assur), Kikkiu
(Nuzi), and Kikkijenne (a woman, Nippur). None of these names are easily
interpreted. The -uli/-ule of Kikkuli is often used in profession names,
so, possibly, it may describe his profession. Where these people of the
Turukki tribe, whose language is unknown? We have no reason to believe that
Kikkuli spoke an Indo-Aryan language. He might have learned the IA
hippological expressions anywhere, even outside Syro-Mesopotamia. India?
Afghanistan? The Hurrians received their lapis lazuli from Afghanistan
(already in the third millennium), and the word maninnu, used in the
Akkadian El Amarna letter 25 to describe different necklaces inlaid with
lapis lazuli, might indicate that maninnu was a trade word. (Compare
"sugar" from an Indian word!)
As we see, there was some contact with Afghanistan from early times. The
Uruk people (Sumerians?) also got lapis lazuli, carnelian and agate from
India, Afghanistan or central Iran. See G. Algaze, THE URUK WORLD SYSTEM,
p. 77: "Lapis lazuli is only obtainable from mines in faraway Badakhshan...
and it most likely reached the Mesopotamian lowlands through either the
Khorasan Road or through trans-Iranian routes across Kerman and Fars into
Susiana... However, more northernly routes across Anatolia are also
possible, since unworked chunks of lapis were recovered at Jebel Aruda on
the Euphrates."
When Hock in his excellent article (kindly sent to me by Rohan Oberoi and
made readable by my son, Thomas), states that $atta- (that is, satta-) may
owe its -tt- to $inta/$itta, the word for "seven" in the non-IE language of
the subjects of the Mittani, this is misleading in many ways, as I have
already explained. (Hock refers to Friedrich 1940, as if nothing had
happened in Hurrology since Adolf's time.) He seems to imply that the
Hurrian rulers of the Mittani empire spoke, or knew, an Indo-Aryan
language, different from the language of their "subjects", something that
seems to be highly unlikely and at any rate should be substantiated by
compelling archaeological and linguistic facts. There are no such facts, as
far as I can see. Tu$ratta might not even have known what his name meant,
or how it should be spelled. Other names of Hurrian kings, like Sau$tattar,
may be Hurrian rather than IA. Many assumed IA names should now be
reexamined on the basis of our present understanding of the Hurrian
language.
When Mayrhofer in one of his articles characterizes Hurrian faduranni as an
IA "Rechtsterminus", this is a striking example of his bias. He implies, or
appears to imply, that an IA language was used as a legal term in Hurrian
courts! And, I would like to ask you Indologists, is vadhura- attested
anywhere in IA legal literature?
Best wishes,
Bjarte Kaldhol,
Oslo
would
these
much
in
this
The
text
Skt.
is
for
with.
long as
confidently
with
etc.
