Siva and Vishnu (was: Kinship systems)
"V. C. Vijayaraghavan" wrote:
S. K. Chatterji in "The Origin and Development of the Bengali
language" (p. 42) thinks rAtri is from Dravidian. But Mayrhofer
lists it as IE and < 'raa'.
DED 2102 Ta. 'iravu, ira, iraa, raa' night; 'iru' black;
'iruTci, iruTTu, iruNmai, irumai' darkness ...
[see the full entry for other Dravidian entries].
Wonder whether this is related to Vedic iirma, ilayati etc.,
That exactly was my request to the list  a while ago.
Appreciations for any references (from the listers) where black
and/or darkness being considered evil in the Egypt of the
Pharoahs or the Judaic literature from pre-Iranian contact
periods. Ie., before, say, 600 BCE.
M. Witzel, Rgvedic history: poets, chieftains and politics,
in Erdosy volume, 1995, p. 325
"The meaning of "black" in the Rgveda repesents a difficult
problem: while it would be easy to assume reference to
skin colour, this would go against the spirit of the hymns:
for Vedic poets "black" always signifies evil, and any other
meaning would be secondary in these context. Skin colour
has, of course, played a significant role in Hindu
society; cf. the varNa ("colour") used for social groups
even in the Rgveda. A glance at modern marriage advertisements
will amply confirm this obsession."
H. H. Hock, Through a glass darkly: Modern "racial"
interpretations vs. textual and general prehistoric
evidence on Arya and dAsa/dasyu in Vedic society
(p. 145-174, Aryan and Non-Aryan in India, 1999).
p. 150-1
"[6] AryaM prAvad ... svarmi.lhe.sv ... |
    ... tvacaM k.r.s.nAm arandhayat (1.130.8)
  Ge: 'Indra helped the Aryan in the battles for the
  sunlight ... he made the black skin subject ...[8]
(Geldner's note: 'the black skin'[9] refers to 'the
black aborgines'[10])."
Some other translations from the RV given are:
(see the original Skt., discussion by Dr. Hock etc.,
in his paper)
"Ge: 'Fifty thousand Blacks you defeated. You slit up
the forts like age [slits up] a garment.' [11]
"Ge: 'Out of fear of you the black tribes moved way, leaving
behind their possessions without fight...'[14]
There are many more like these.
p. 155, Hock writes:
"..., the evidence of the Avestan designation for 'caste',
pistra (from paEs = Skt. piz 'paint') suggests that
the use of words for 'color, paint' goes back at least
to Proto-Indo-Iranian times, presumably before the
contact between Aryas and dAsas/dasyus."
Reading N. Cohn, How Time acquired a Consummation,
in Malcolm Bull, Apocalypse theory and the ends of the
World, Blackwell, 1995 where the Iranian influence
is described and Sons of Light vs. Sons of Darkness
(S. Hodge' mail).
Hence my quetion: is this an Indo-Iranian heritage in
the Bible?
Regards,
N. Ganesan
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
http://profiles.msn.com.
