Announcement of journal and conference (fwd)
Re: announcement of journal and conference
_Language,Thought and Reality: East West Perspectives_
Scholars are invited to submit titles and abstracts(about 150words) of
papers to be presented in the Interdisciplonary conference on
"Language,Thought and Reality: East West Perspectives" to be held on
April 12-14, 2001 at the California State University, Chico , California.
The conference is sponsored by the Philosophy department of the
California State University, Chico and the Society for Indian Philosophy
& Religion.
Possible topics include: Language,Thought and Reality,Myth, Metaphor and
Reality, Realism and Idealism, Scepticism, Agnosticism and Dogmatism,
Deductivism and Inductivism, Holism and Atomism,Ineffable and
Unknowable, God and Absolute, Transcendence and Immanence, Reason,
Revelation and Faith, Atman and Brahman, Tao and Inaction, Zen and
Enlightement, Vedanta and Sufism, Emptiness and Nothingness, Maya and
Primal Nature, Creation,Reincarnation and Evolution, Deconstruction and
Relativity, Process Theology, Existentialism and Essentialism. This list
is illustrative and not exhaustive.
The conference also features a student paper competition: one prize for
undergraduate entries and one for graduate. Papers may be from any
discipline or may be interdisciplinary but must deal with the conference
theme. Participants should have a letter of endorsement sent by a faculty
member, department chair or some other appropriate person.
The deadline for submission of abstracts is February 6, 2001. The advance
registration fee of $60 should be paid by check drawn in fvor of the SIPR
and mailed by March 10, 2001 to the Secretary, SIPR, College Box 2336,
Elon College, Elon College, NC 27244.
For Further information please contact:
Dr. Chandana Chakrabarti
Conference Director
Elon College, NC 27244
Telephone: 336-278-5713
Email address; Chakraba at elon.edu
Or
Dr. Terri Elliott
Conference Director
California State University, Chico
Chico, CA
Telephone:  530-898-6693
Email address:  TELLIOTT at csuchico.edu
