From giravani at JUNO.COM  Wed Nov 29 16:20:17 2000
From: giravani at JUNO.COM (Narayan R. Joshi)
Date: Wed, 29 Nov 00 16:20:17 +0000
Subject: Caucasian genes in Dravidian wombs
Message-ID: <161227064745.23782.1294215589113302409.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

American Indologists(few, not all)are not behind the European Indologists
(Nov.27,Larse Martin Fosse-Europeans have a lot more to answer...)in
creating facts using linguistic analytical tool(Vanbakkam..No.29).Here is
one example.To quote Dr.Stanley Wolpert(trained Indologist?)from p.27(A New
History of India,4th Edition, OUP),"This was the most important invasion in
all of India's history, since the Aryans brought with their Caucasian genes
a new language-Sanskrit-and a new pantheon of gods....". Now when did
Aryans become Caucasians? Does it mean the pre-invasion Dravidian
population of the sub-continent was Negroid and then after invasion around
1000 BCE, it became hybrid around 500 BCE due to entrance of Caucasian
genes in Dravidian wombs? The word "Caucasian" is fabricated label just
like the label "Semitic"and may mean different things to different people.
The label is without archaeological, historical and anthropological
foundations.Is the trained Indologist mixing Aryans from Central Asia, with
Iranians of Caucasian regions of 500 BCE and with white Europeans of
American Immigration Authorities? David Marshall Lang in his book "The
Georgians"(pub:Frederick A.Prager)explodes the myth. To quote him, "In view
of wide misconceptions, a word must be said about the term "Caucasian"
itself.Certain physical anthropologist who know better, and also Ammerican
immigration authorities who cannot be expected to do so,habitually use this
word to denote virtually anyone who is not a Negro,a Jew, Indian,Chinese-in
fact, as the virtual opposite of "Colored". In short,a "Caucasian" in this
context comes to be the White Man par excellence, so the term has taken on
something of the meaning which in Hitler's time attached to "Aryan". This
is utterly unscientific and a complete misnomer. The Anglo/Saxons,
Latins,Slavs, and others to whom this term is so loosely applied have
absolutely no historical or ethnic connection with the Caucasian peoples
proper, except for certain recent waves of immigration...". Is the trained
Indologist then dreaming the impregnation of Negroid Dravidian ladies of
the sub-continent by his European ancestors around 1000 BCE in the way some
of his ancestors impregnated slave Negro ladies in the past 200 years in
USA? As a matter of fact careful research may prove that there was the
South Indian-Georgian connection in prehistoric times and the South Indian
Dravidian brown masters were present among the Europeans of the prehistoric
times. Thanks.




