vajra
Stephen Hodge wrote:
I suppose you (Stephen) intended to write 'not borne out by traditional
commentaries' ? Or have I failed to catch your drift?
I certainly feel, like Stephen Hodge, that Walker was neither
well-informed nor insightful (and like Stephen I would be generally
inclined to suspect an author who uses "sakti as standard term for the
female consort of a tantric deity or practitioner). But the sentence which
Stephen regards as 'misleading over-imaginative rubbish',  and which
strikes me as indeed rather sensationalist and distortive, is, it must be
admitted, actually one which seems to be at least partly/distantly based
on textual evidence. It seems to be inspired by some famous lines from the
Hevajratantra:
   vihare 'ha.m sukhaavatyaa.m sadvajrayo.sito bhage (II.ii.38ab)
   ......
   dvaatri.m"sallak.sa.nii "saastaa a"siitivya~njanaani prabhu.h (sic)
   yo.sidbhage sukhaavatyaa.m "sukranaamnaa vyavasthita.h (II.ii.41)
(If Walker was aware of this latter passage, and had it in mind when he
wrote, he seems to have either ignored "sukranaamnaa or interpreted it as
vajranaamnaa (?).)
As to how these lines (which are incidentally echoed in some other
yoginiitantra texts) were interpreted within the tradition(s)---that is a
complicated matter. (The short answer, which is the only one I would like
to give at present, is 'Variously'.)
I have not read Walker's piece, aside from this quote, and I'm grateful to
Ven Tantra for drawing our attention to it, for it may be of some interest
for the history of the (mis)interpretation of Buddhist tantra in modern
times. In general, it is hard to find any secondary literature at all on
Buddhist tantra that is well-informed and avoids sensationalism and/or
overly strong prejudice/bias. Those really interested in (the history of)
Vajrayaana in India are strongly advised to learn to read primary sources.
Nevertheless the past decades have, I think, seen real advances in the
study of this field, and in the coming ones I hope that even more will be
made.
Harunaga Isaacson
Institut f?r Kultur und Geschichte Indiens und Tibets
Hamburg University
