Caucasian genes in Dravidian wombs
Dear Mr. Joshi,
    first of all, Dr. Stanley Wolpert seem to be not an American, but
European writer (at least most of his books are published in Oxford, UK).
And I think that we hardly can call him an Indologist in the sense the word
is used in this list. He is known as the author of monographs on some modern
political leaders: Jinnah, Nehru, Tilak, Gokhale, Zulfikar Bhutto... And of
"A New History of India" (first published in 1977), which is not a new
version of general history of India, but namely  "A New (meaning: Modern)
History...". In other words, he is simply not competent enough to comment on
the origins of the Indian Civilisation. The phrase you quote is certainly
based on some very old source, at least several decades old even in 1977. In
our time no "trained Indologist", at least Classical Indologist, specialist
in Ancient India, would say anything like that. For several decades it is an
established fact that the anthropological characteristics of Indian
population have not changed since at least Neolithic, when predominant, i.e.
the most widespread anthropological type was already, in anthropological
terminology, Southern Caucasoid or Southern Europeoid - the type which is
also characteristic for the peoples living in Southern parts of Europe. The
ancestors of peoples speaking now both Dravidian and Indo-Aryan languages
belonged predominantly to this type, though in some localities there is
evident even now some admixture of  Austroloid or Mongoloid features. In any
case, it is obvious, that the spread of a particular branch of Aryan
(Indo-Iranian) language group over Northern India in the 2nd-1st millenium
BC was not accompanied with any increase of  "Caucasian" element in the
anthropological complex of India.
      The spread of the new language (languages) resulted, of course, in the
change of a cultural paradigm, though from the very beginning the process of
synthesis was at work But for many decades nobody among people dealing with
ancient Indian culture defines the coming of IA languages to India in terms
of the "Aryan invasion". The last revival of this long-dead concept was
connected with the sensational "discovery" of the "massacre at
Mohenjo-Daro", which very soon proved to be mythical. How long ago it was:
forty years, or more? Several new generations of Indologists grew after
that.
       Recently you could learn from the mass media about the latest
discovery of geneticists who proved that 80% of total European population
are direct genetic descendants of a very small group (a dozen individuals or
so) which had come in the Paleolithic period from the Ural mountains. I hope
very much that the same kind of analysis will be done soon for India and I
am almost sure the results would be similar. Because linguistic changes have
nothing in common with racial and genetic characteristics. Please, try to
imagine how many different languages replaced each other in ancient and
mediaeval Europe - but all the time the core of the population genetically
remained the same.
    In conclusion one humble request: if anybody in Europe or America writes
something foolish or makes a mistake, please, do not make generalisations
about mentality and attitudes of all European/American/Western scholars.
    Best regards,
Yaroslav Vassilkov
Sent: Wednesday, November 29, 2000 5:20 PM
Caucasian genes in Dravidian wombs
New
in
genes
with
view
this
Indian,Chinese-in
some
prehistoric
