Questions on Indian Philosophy
First, i wish to thank you for responding to me (this was my first post on
this list).
read all the essays at the end by modern scholars, but not all of the
original source material), and have also read "Lokayata: A study in ancient
Indian materialism", also by D.P. Chattopadhyaya.
not correct to say that we know nothing about them either. We do have some
knowledge about their epistemology (the fact that they placed great emphasis
on direct perception), their ethics, their metaphysics (which was this
worldly), and the fact that they subscribed to "svabhava vada".
Mrinal Kanti Gangopadhyaya, inference was accepted as a pramana by the
Charvakas. One of the reasons they give for this is the direct testimony of
the Charvaka philosopher Purandara on this matter (which became available to
us thanks to the stupendous research of S.N. Dasgupta). (There are other
reasons that they give as well). Now, are there any scholars besides
Chattopadhyaya and Gangopadhyaya who accept this view (of inference being
accepted as a pramana by the Charvakas)?
only accepted direct perception as a pramana. However, Gangopadhyaya has
shown that many of the direct quotes they give (claiming that these
represent the views of Charvakas) turn out to be direct quotes of Bhatrihari
(spelling?), who it turns out was not a Charvaka (i think he was an
Advaitist, but i am not sure). The point being that Gunaratna and others, in
their zeal to refute the Charvakas, stand accused of over generalisation and
exagerration (and even deliberate distortion), if Gangopadhyaya (and
Chattopadhyaya) are to be believed.
so far as inference is used in dealing with transcendental matters; they do
not deny inference wholesale, if Chattopadhyaya and Gangopadhyaya are to be
believed. I would like to know whether there are other scholars who agree
with this thesis.
to declare that there were actually two schools of Charvakas--one accepting
inference, and the other denying it. D.P. Chattopadhyaya, Gangopadhyaya
informs us, had strongly criticised this move. I am not sure what is the
present position regarding this.
besides Chattopadhyaya?
==> Afaik, Mimansakas believe that the correct performance of ritual leads
to salvation. The words "Indra", "Varuna", etc. are not names of Gods, they
claim, but mere sounds used in the spell. In other words, the rituals by
themselves constitute the summum bonum, and there is no place for any God
(or gods). This, of course, reminds one of primitive magic.
Dasgupta, Radhakrishnan and Chattopadhyaya. Would you recommend someone
else?
inform me, however, whether the Nyaya Sutra itself is atheistic or theistic
according to Matilal?
-Satya
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
http://profiles.msn.com.
