From rajarshi.banerjee at SMGINC.COM  Sun Nov 12 18:38:31 2000
From: rajarshi.banerjee at SMGINC.COM (Rajarshi Banerjee)
Date: Sun, 12 Nov 00 13:38:31 -0500
Subject: pseudo-chariot wheels, K. D. Sethna
Message-ID: <161227064070.23782.6482592004505934277.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Mr. Farmer,
Before you go off calling K D sethna's interpretation as tampering
I challenge you to answer some questions. Your earlier statements are weak
in logic and frivolous.
I am challenging you to be serious and objective for once.
>
you have raised some good points and some which are ridiculous.
>

1) THE OVAL COULD REPRESENT THE SUN

The sun would never appear as an oval to any observer because its a sphere.

I will grant you that they could have compressed the solar disc in the
interest of saving space
or thought of the sun as a disc and not a sphere( perfectly natural for
those times )

I am going to rule out proximity to black holes or observers travelling near
light speed.
>

2) HARRAPANS HAD SPOKED WHEELS A THOUSAND YEARS BEFORE OTHER CIVILIZATIONS

Not necessarily. I had mentioned that wheels with a painted spoke design
have been found in harappa.
Whether they represented real spokes or were simply a design is not known.
This would apply to the signs too.
No real wheels have been found so we cannot say if harapans had spoked
wheels or not.
The toys chariots found are small and may not be authentic replicas. I dont
know if making a toy spoked wheel would have presented casting problems or
thought of as unnessary detail in a toy.

Here you will find a picture of a harappan wheel with 6 painted spokes
http://sarasvati.simplenet.com/ratha1.htm
>

3) POTTERS WHEELS ( MR. Ganesan )

Should we then think of the signs as represeting a man perched precariously
on the rims of two potters wheels
or Maybe its a potter who owns 2 wheels not more not less.
>

4) LACK OF REALISM, NO HUBS ETC...

This is ridiculous. PLease note that the man on the wheels does not have 5+5
fingers, nose
toes lips etc.
>

In summary:
Mr sethna's asumption is not a bad one. Another one I can think of is a man
striding on celestial bodies/systems
something on the lines of vishnu's vAmana avatAra. PLease come up with
better ones if you can..
>


If I may I will turn on my bitch switch:
>
If you really doubt what I am saying you could read up on euclidian
geometry, special, general theory of relativity
or perhaps check up on einsteins and euclids background ( did they spend a
few years in some ashram in pondicherry? )
By the way Who is to check that you dont sneak into some church in your
neighbourhood.
>
bitch switch off:
>
regards RB




