Questions on Indian Philosophy
First of all, just for the purpose of clarification, would you agree that
the central thesis in Mimansa is to rationalise and defend the Vedic
rituals, the performance of which leads to pleasure or happiness  ("sukh").
Further, the Mimansakas identify this pleasure with "svarga", (heaven), i.e.
svarga is not something that brings pleasure, it is something that is
identical with pleasure. Hope you agree with this.
one desires to have a son. (I realize that the Mimansakas recognize the
importance of sexual intercourse in having a child. Didn't express myself
properly last time round.) I disagree with you in that it was/is prescribed
only for cases where no children are born. The emphasis is on *sons*, not
children.
logic based philosophy and religious based philosophy, according to Kautilya
(in his "Arthasastra"), and i agree with him here. (Kautilya himself places
the Sankhya, Yoga, and Charvaka philosophies in the category of "logic based
philosophy". It has since been demonstrated, fairly conclusively, that by
"Yoga" Kautilya actually meant the Nyaya-Vaisesik, since "Yoga" is an older
term for the Nyaya-Vaisesik.)
and
magic.
however, i will make another claim to show the inherent irrationality in the
Mimansa: In order to justify the importance and validity of the Vedic
rituals, Mimansakas claim that the Vedas are absolutely valid. So absolutely
valid, indeed, that the Vedas have no author, human or divine, according to
the Mimansakas. I wonder whether you will seek to explain this away as well.
reactionary(with its strong emphasis on rituals), and on the other hand
revolutionary (with its emphasis on realism).
ritual, according to the Mimansakas. Consider a deva who has a hundred
synonymns used to refer to him. Now, the Mimansakas claim that those hundred
different synonyms are actually hundred different sounds to be used while
performing some Vedic ritual.
And you must also distinguish
that of Dvaita Vedanta and Visistadvaita, as you might know.
"kathenotheism"? Is this some sort of monism?
they violate one of the fundamental principles of the Mimansa.
Instead of
violating a fundamental tenet of the Mimansa: the fact that the rituals, by
themselves, when performed correctly, lead to pleasure or 'sukh', and this
pleasure is itself identified with heaven ('svarga')
The ritual
Mimansa, and Mimansa becomes inconsistent if you do away with it, in my
opinion.
-Satya
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
http://profiles.msn.com.
