Siva and Vishnu (was: Kinship systems)
On Mon, 6 Nov 2000 15:55:31 GMT, N. Ganesan <naga_ganesan at HOTMAIL.COM>
wrote:
There are too many speculations resting on other speculations which makes
the whole edifice shaky. Mal meaning Vishnu/Narayana in earlier Tamil texts
somehow gets "merged" with with Vishnu-Narayana. But you are not convinced
about the derivation of Narayana from a non-Sanskritic root especially Nal
in Tamil. Hence your "seems". If what you say has any validity, you must
show where Tamil texts which predate sanskrit texts or oral tradition,
where a divinity is spoken of as a mere 'Nal' or something very close. can
you bring forward any evidence to that effect? About the seemingly day
rituals / night rituals of Gatha and Veda somehow having a bearing on
"cculturated Aryans recruited from Dravidian speakers" (which itself is
another speculation), is like saying that the English who crossed over to
America rejected Monarchy due to the recruitment of native American Indians
being accultured as the English. You may equally say that the English who
stayed at home were "pure" and the English who made the Declaration of
Independence were basically native Americans with English sounding names -
with Massachusetts an Indian name being an appropriate centre of the
rebellion of native Americans against English. If you are going to
speculate along these lines,
it leads us nowhere. Your meaningless speculations are revealed in your
Ratri in Skr being "said" to come from Tamil Iravu? Why not it be the other
way around? Again you will be making a solid case for what you say if you
can bring more textual evidence? or at least if you can bring words of
proto-Dravidian . After all if at all vedic sanskrit came into contact with
anything , it would have been proto-dravidian and not dravidian. I also
notice that whenever you talk of "dravidian" it is with 99% certainty
Tamil. If you are so much into Dravidian studies why don't you bring other
20 Dravidian languages? why everything revolves around Tamil? If you really
want to prove a dravidian connection , you must bring a whole series of
Dravidian languages from Brahui down to Telegu and show me how depending on
the geographical proximity to the original source of Vedic sanskrit ,
somewhere in Upper India, how the word changes slowly take place . To begin
with , can you say what is the word for "black" in a whole series of
Dravidian languages? I am sick of looking at only Tamil examples for
anything "Dravidian". To me it looks like Tamil chauvinism than
scholorship. About your "interesting" observation of "black as evil" in the
Bible coming from Iran (presumably the racist aryans)-another meaningless
speculation- there are two possibilities to satisfy your curiosity- a. Jews
and other semites don't need to learn racism from aryan texts, it is
inborn. b. Jews in their sojourn in Egypt learnt it from the Egyptians -
after all the Pharoahs loathed the black people in Sudan and southern Egypt
and waged exterminatory campaigns against them. About "RV definitely talks
of "black" enemies and so forth" there is a contradiction in what you say.
If you are so definite, why are you putting in black in apostrephes? That
itself shows you don't realise what are you writing.  Anyway interpreting
RV in racial terms is a colonialist habit which the present-day Indologists
have grown out of.
Are you not taking accidental factors like redness, auspiciousness and
relating it to Shiva? I can think of dozens of attributes of Shiva- matted
hair, snake, meditation, husband of Parvati and so on. Why only Tamil words
Cem- be somehow related? who not dozens of other words? And if you are so
sure Cem in Dravidian is auspicious and red, how about other languages in
the group? Why all your speculations and cogitations are Tamil-centric. If
you talk of Indo-European family of languages, there are hundreds of words
known even to laymen- ordinary everyday words- which resonate in the entire
group? Why the word Cem= auspiciousness not resonate in any other language?
These are again speculation - indicated with your "appears".
Your thesis rests on inconclusive and non-committal words like "appears",
"seems". "said to" and so on. Speculations rest on other speculations which
depend on accidental factors. Also you hardly go out of Tamil - that too by
and large modern Tamil- with no concept of proto-Dravidian. All this makes
it wishy-washy
