History of the religeous title  bhagavAn
Dear Harry,
    there was intensive correspondence on this subject in Indology in March
1999 (or was it 1998). Will you look in the archives? I remember, there were
very useful references to a book by Dhavamony and his commentary to a
passage in van Buitenen's translation of the Gita. I shall send you more
detailed answer in a day or two, now let me just mention an article where
the term "bhagavAn" is discussed: J.Gonda. The Concept of a personal God in
ancient Indian religious thought. - "Studia missionaria", Roma 1968, 17
(1968), pp. 111-136, reprinted in: J.Gonda. Selected studies. Vol. IV.
Leiden, 1975, pp/ 1-26. I shall also try to answer some of your questions:
literature?
The term "bhagavat" occurs often in the RV in the sense of  "one who
possesses/owns a [happy] lot", "one who is able to give/send a happy lot
(good luck)", "benefactor", etc. A typical verse is "Let Indra become a
bhagavat, and through him we shall become bhagavat-s (bhagavantaH) too" (no
exact reference; quoted from memory). It was used with reference to any god
who was expected to send "good luck", and used as a "provoking" form of
address which invited the god addressed to fulfil a singer's wish. My own
suggestion is that it first became the constant epithet of a god of personal
fate (such as Vedic Bhaga [whose name semantically = Bhagavat], or Epic
DhAtA), and later started to be used as an address (first of all, in prayer)
to the theistic God, be it ViSNu, or Ziva.
     At the same time it was probably used as a honorific title with
reference to religious teachers. The original meaning of "bhagavat" in
relation to Buddha was probably "the Teacher" which turned in the course of
time to "Lord Buddha".
    It seems to me that at the present condition of our knowledge we cannot
say with any certainty who was the first "Bhagavan" - ViSNu, or Ziva, or
Buddha. Since about 3rd-2nd centuries BC there is some evidence for all of
them. It could be, after all, a parallel development.
        Not in post-Vedic times, especially when it became the Hindu
theistic term, forming a system with *bhakta* and *bhakti*.
across
the
        I doubt that Basham was right. Another "social" interpretation of
the term was suggested by D.Chattopadhyaya and other Indian marxists:
*bhagavan* as one who distributed "shares" in "primitive communism" society.
       The term all the time continued to be used  as a honorific for
religious teachers. See, e.g. the title of an early mediaeval
Sanskrit-PrAkrit play "BhagavadajjukA" - "The Teacher [who became] AjjukA" -
about a religious teacher (called by his disciples "Bhagavat") who exchanged
bodies with AjjukA (AryakA), a courtesan.
Hope this helps.
    Best regards,
Yaroslav Vassilkov
