Questions on Indian Philosophy
thought. It is his verses, for example, that Madhvacharya quotes in his
famous "Sarva darsana sangraha".
inference as a pramana, are quoted by Gunaratna, Jayanta Bhatta and others
in their refutation of the Charvakas. What is especially interesting is that
these philosophers (Gunaratna,etc.) do not mention the fact that they are
quoting Bhart.rhari when they actually do so ; this fact was only found out
later (by modern scholars).
"Indian Logic at its Sources".
of in his book was an Advaita Vedantist.
schools of Indian philosophy had for the Charvakas. All the othe r schools
of Indian philosophy were affiliated to some religion (Hindu, Budhist, or
Jain). Charvaka philosophy, however, attacked religion vigorously and denied
the notions of God, rebirth, etc. And hence we find that Charvakas have
often been referred to as "rakshasas", "asuras", and other such words in
Indian philosophical/religious texts. Even the really great philosophers of
Indian philosophy have resorted to name calling when refuting the Charvakas.
Gunaratna and Jayanta Bhatta call them "naive fools", and Vachaspati Mishra
calls them "more beastly then the beasts". Even Sankar calls them "unlearned
people". Where there is so much hatred, i would not be surprised if there
was also some distortion of Charvaka views.
where someone called "Charvaka" is burnt to death (by orthodox brahmins),
after being identified to be a "rakshasa".
principles of interpretations, which have been used widely by the Indian law
givers to resolve contradictions in legal texts(and which are even used to
this day sometimes in Indian law courts), reveal that the scholars who came
up with them were highly intelligent people. Further, by emphasising the
reality of the world, they played an important part in refuting Indian
idealism.
philosophy. Thus, the Mimansakas believe, for example, that if you wish to
have a son, you will have to perform the appropriate ritual for that in a
correct and flawless fashion. This, i submit, is magic.
which he refutes the idea of God in quite a comprehensive manner. I have not
read Prabhakar, in the original, but i understand that he has done the same.
I also understand that there was a tendency to "smuggle in" (Radhakrishnan's
words (see his "Indian Philosophy vol.2"), not mine) God into the Mimansa
philosophy, by the later Mimansakas (i.e. several centuries after Kumarila
Bhatta and Prabhakara) and that the early Mimansakas, at least, were
atheists.
-Satya
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
Share information about yourself, create your own public profile at
http://profiles.msn.com.
