Indo-Aryan words in Hurrian
Dear listmembers,
Thanks to this information, kindly provided by Venkatraman Iyer, I can now
see that this issue was hotly debated by several listmembers about two
years ago. Sorry I missed it. One detail struck me: Michael Witzel keeps
referring to a name Priyamazdha which I cannot find anywhere. Michael, are
you referring to Biriamaza/Biruaza/Birwaza, mayor of Damascus, in EA? This
name cannot be read as Priyamazdha, I believe.
Also, I have noted some interesting words in the Kikkuli text. Among them
is tera- for *tri-, cited everywhere as tri- !!!. Kikkuli, if he was a
Hurrian, would have said what we read: tera-. We don't know where he had
learned this word and how it was pronounced in the original IA dialect, but
it would have ended in -a, not in -i, since -i is the normal ending of
numbers, as well as most nouns, in Hurrian, and there would be no reason to
Hurrianize it to -a. It is very likely that all Hurrian words started with
single consonants, so Kikkuli would not have been able to say tr-. The form
tera-, therefore, is not due to the clumsiness of the cuneiform writing.
Another word "corrected" by Kammenhuber is -ortan, a form of wartanna
occurring after tera-. Kammenhuber reads *tri-u(a)rtan<na> instead of what
is actually written: ti-e-ra-u-ur-tan, see Hippologia H. p. 90, line 37.
The inserted -u- would normally mean that this word should be read
teraordan, probably with a long -o-. Unless there is a printing error here,
with -u- instead of -u2- (which would have given *terawurtan) I am pretty
sure that Kikkuli said teraordan, with a long -o- and a voiced dental after
r. The expected -na inserted by Kammenhuber may have disappeared, since
short vowels at the end of Hurrian words tended to disappear, but the next
word is a-a-u2-za-mi-e-wa, so the ending of the previous word may simply
have been elided before the double a. This word, auzamewa (also auzumewa)
looks like the dative of an infinitive *auzumme, but Kammenhuber takes it
as a nominative/absolutive, which is hard to swallow if the word is
Hurrian. The intervocalic, single -z- is taken by Frederic Bush to
represent a voiced affricate -dz-. Possibly, however, it might represent
English -j-. When doubled, this letter would represent the corresponding
unvoiced consonant, -ts- or perhaps -ch- as in "church". There are
different opinions about this, but see Frederic Bush, A GRAMMAR OF HURRIAN,
p. 59.
The much debated *$itta does not exist. It is inferred from a word
$ittanna, whose meaning is not at all clear.
Best wishes,
Bjarte Kaldhol
IE
