Black as Evil
    I am not in a position to ban anything on this list, and I did not speak
about any ban.
I addressed the participants of the discussion themselves in the belief that
they could imagine all its possible conscequences.
    The thread "Black as Evil" would not be dangerous if it is discussed on
the lines of  semiotics of colours, etc. But not all of us are
anthropologists and specialists in semiotics, and as a result the discussion
from time to time turns into a list of bad qualities which one ethnic
/racial group have ever ascribed to the people of another ethnic /racial
group. I do not see what good such "quotations" could do.
     Being a resident of East Europe, I am probably more aware than you of
all ethnic conflicts of recent years: several of them in Yugoslavia, many in
the former Soviet Union: Moldova, Abhazia, Southern Ossetia, North Ossetia,
Karabakh, Chechya etc. In so many instances it all started from a "public
discussion" of ethnic / racial problems. That is why we have now in Russia a
law banning "propaganda of ethnic hatred". Unfortunately, it is almost never
used in juridicial practice. But we have a moral taboo for public discussion
of such topics as concepts of mental or moral inferiority of Africans
/Asians / Westerners / foreigners in general, or of the concept of
world-wide Jewish / Masonic conspiracy. Because there would always appear
some people to use such discussion just as a pretext for putting in a
"quotation"or two...
    Mayby in the country you live in it is different. As for me, racism is
always a poison, even in "quotations".
    The "Black as Evil" thread seems to go on, so we shall know soon who of
us was right. Let us see what will come out of it.
    Best regards
Yaroslav Vassilkov
P.S. In my previous posting the date of St.Nicolas' Day (SinterClaas) in the
Netherlands was given as "5th Sept.". Surely it must be "5th Dec.". Many
thanks to Lynken Ghose who kindly attracted my attention to the mistake.
Ya.V.
Sent: Sunday, December 10, 2000 9:33 PM
Re: Black as Evil
We
 Yaroslav Vassilkov
No
objection
