PDF (was publication of IASS papers on CDROM)
Hello, Kengo,
I like your way of looking at things...
Just some little tech notes again if you don't mind.
UNIX normally uses ISO-9660 as CD-ROM format. Without any additions such
as Joliet, Romeo, etc.
If you insert a non-ISO-9660 CD-ROM into a UNIX machine running, say,
Solaris or Linux, then it will try to mount it as ISO-9660, and the result
will be various shades of funny. For example, if you insert a "Windows
CD-ROM" (that normally means ISO-9660 with Microsoft's partly undocumented
(!) Joliet extension for long paths) into a Solaris or Linux machine, it
will present the files to you with ISO-9660 indexing (which it takes from
the 8.3 short-file-name list that Joliet provides as a fallback).
Something similar happens when you insert a Macintosh-format CD (and some
Solaris machines won't unmount these any more...). That's just courtesy of
the designers of these non-ISO-9660 formats which tried to give you a
smooth escape route in non-native environments.
One thing about "hybrid CDs" (Mac+Windows, for example): dangerous! Good
for general publishing sometimes, but no good for archiving, because not
normed, with several variants around, and never completely supported by
all hardware and driver makers. In addition, reproducing hybrid CDs is
quite complicated and requires special, very uncommon software.
Of course you are absolutely right -- the CD-ROM will not be supported
eternally by the hardware folks making consumer electronics. That's why I
think one important task of digital libraries will be to retain the
migration CAPABILITY for the public. Some people think it will be
necessary to migrate ALL data carriers from the respective old-norm media
to the respective new-norm media whenever a norm reaches the end of its
lifespan in general electronics. I am not sure if that is realistic. I may
underestimate future digital capabilities, but I think the infrastructure
is not going to be there for that for a long time.
What I personally envisage as feasible would be this kind of scenario.
Imagine a normed data carrier type x (currently the CD-ROM) going
completely out of popular use in y years. The academic public now finds
itself unable to use type x any longer. But most digital archive holdings
are on type x media. In this situation I think digital archives should be
able not to migrate their entire holdings from type x to the next normed
data carrier (let's call it type z) in one go, but to "migrate on demand",
i.e. on request, when a particular set of data is requested by a user.
This capability would be fairly easy to maintain with relatively little
equipment over many generations. The digital library should be able to
monitor the process and to ensure that data that are rarely requested do
not fall out of the migration framework eventually. In other words: if
there are data that are never migrated because nobody ever requests them,
then the digital librarian should step in and migrate them. Quality
management routines for such a process look feasible to me even for
relatively low-budget libraries. The job could be centralised or partly
centralised.
Personally I think that if current developments continue, the future might
see normed data carriers that will be so long-lasting and so huge that it
will be feasible to migrate larger and larger proportions of entire
digital libraries onto fewer and fewer media. When one looks back a little
over the last century, it's other things that worry me. In the past
century, Germany alone has lost roughly 30% of its library holdings to
"external factors" (wars...). Would the bits and bytes have escaped the
bombs better? Nothing  destroys the human heritage better than man...
Unfortunately, destroying digital media seems a lot easier than destroying
parchment and paper. It seems to me that digitization should go hand in
hand with "pre-emptive publishing". Proliferation is also a form of
conservation.
Gunthard
gm at e-ternals.com
Kengo Harimoto wrote:
