Origins of the "double-truth"
Vidyasankar Sundaresan wrote:
are. By "they", you are referring to S.N. Dasgupta (see his "Indian
idealism" and the 1st vol. of his "History of Indian Philosophy); D.P.
Chattopadhyaya (see his "What is living and what is dead in Indian
Philosophy"); Satkari Mookherjee (see the "Nana-nalanda Mahavira Research
Publications 1957" (of which he is editor); and also his "Budhist Philosophy
of Universal Flux"); Stcherbatsky (see his "Conception of Budhist Nirvana
and "Budhist Logic"); and also, with some reservations,  S.Radhakrishnan
(2nd vol. of his "Indian Philosophy") and B.N.K. Sharma (see the 1st vol. of
his "History of Dvaita school of Vedanta and its literature"). I am sure
there are other scholars who have drawn similar conclusions; this is just a
prelimnary list.
understand the Advaita and the Mahayana appears to be a little  presumptious
on ur part.
epistemological (the epistemological differences between dvaita and advaita
are significant). The chief difference, however, lies in the interpretation
of the Upanisads (since there exist "bheda sruti" and "abheda sruti", and
these have to be reconciled).
The
epistemology and ontology as is agreed by all major writers on Indian
philosophy. (Kindly see the list of writers i mentioned for references to
Advaitist epistemology.)Sankar's Adhyaya bhasya (available as a translation
by Thibaut) contains a description of his epistemology. [I'll e-mail this to
you, if you wish.] For a general denunciation of reasoning itself, kindly
see Sankar's Vedanta bhasya ((ii.1.11)) [ i am personally relying on George
Thibaut's translation of this.]
[ The epistemology of Dvaita Vedanta, however, is realist.]
For the Advaitin, the
are right. If you believe that they do not subscribe to an Ultimate Reality,
then it would seem you are wrong. See D.P. Chattopadhyaya's "What is living
and what is dead in Indian Philosophy", and S.N. Dasgupta's
"Indian idealism" for more on this.
Now,
do not agree with this. They do agree with paratantra, as i will make clear
in a subseq. post. The sunyavadi's way of equating the world with the
ultimate reality is strikingly similar to that of the Advaitists (although i
agree that differences do exist between sunyavada and Advaita, but these are
minor as compared to the similarites between them). Again, see the list of
writers i gave before.
even by other Vedantists (including both the Dvaita Vedantists and
Visistadvaitists). Eminenent modern scholars agree with the accusations.
Surely it is not inappropriate to inquire into the matter.
I hope Hinduism and its schools receive
Nyaya-Vaisesik, Dvaita Vedanta, etc.), and not just the Advaita Vedanta,
will be treated with respect eventually.
function at Benaras Hindu University at which a High Court judge gave a
lecture and took part in discussions with the Sanskrit scholars at the
university. (He was talking about the Mimansa principles of interpretations,
and how one could use it in jurisprudence, and more practically, in the
cases before him.)
Sanskrit, although i am trying to learn it.
working on these issues.
I hope there is some scholar out there, who is
Mookherjee, Stcherbatsky and others, although i agree that more work needs
to be done on this.
-Satya
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
