>From the Indian input, we think we might be able to publish roughly 10
to 30
palm-leaf manuscript editions per month, starting around March.

We are also trying to help with digitising photographic material
(positive and
negative slides of all the sizes in common use), and we can also offer
16mm
microfilm digitisation.

Microfilm durability:
Most microfilm material used so far has a life expectancy of around
fifty years.

The problem is that it is an analog material, which means: it is out of
control,
i.e. parts of the film decay without anybody noticing. There is no
digital
checksum or other method for checking quality. The material simply
decays
slowly, not unlike bad paper. Under good conditions it might last sixty
years,
under bad ones maybe only thirty.
16mm microfilm makers have recently pioneered new film types that are
now said
to last much longer.
But as it is still analog material, I am skeptical. There is no way to
prove
such claims with analog material.
There is also the problem of quality. Microfilm photography is a far cry
from
direct digitisation. Even now, most new microfilm material has a very
low
resolution, no colours, and rather limited gray scales.
Some initiatives have sprung up that now place digital data on
microfilm. That
would solve the quality problem (i.e. digitise directly, then put the
result on
microfilm), but personally I am still to be convinced that these very
new film
materials really live up to the promises. We have had so many such
promises
about new film materials ("tapes"...) in the computer world already,
with new
magic tape types being advertised all the time as being super-reliable,
but, as
you probably know yourself, these promises were all very unrealistic
indeed. In
actual fact, no tape manufacturer in the digital world has enough
courage to
give a warranty of more than five years. Ssome DLT material makers give
such a
warranty, but some digital film makers only give a six-month warranty.
It is much easier to claim amazing durability life spans if you reckon
that
people will put analog material on the film, rather than digital. If
digital
material decays, the user knows it has decayed the moment he tries to
read the
tape and it fails. If analog material decays, nobody can prove the
decay. The
manufacturer will claim the photography was what the film shows, and
users don't
have the technical material to disprove it.
The other problem with microfilm is that publishing materials on
microfilm is
expensive, slow, and few people have continuous access to a microfilm
reader. At
best, you can get access in a library, museum, etc.; further, microfilm
material
can be printed on reader-printer machines, but not edited any further,
the way
you can with digital material.
We have recently digitised a piece that was made of leather, turned
black over
the years, with Hebrew writing in black ink on it. Material like that
cannot be
microfilmed. But it can be digitised, and we were able to already read
some of
the text on the screen directly after digitisation, and with a bit of
Photoshop
work we turned the black leather into silver or light gray, while
keeping the
black ink black. Now we can read it beautifully, and we could print it
on our
digital four-colour printing machine. This kind of editing requires
digitisation.

If you want, I can keep you up-to-date on our latest publications. They
are very
useful for scholars who are working on critical editions, for e-texting
projects
(you can send the same manuscript around the world to your typists, for
just a
few dollars a piece), for learning Grantha, Sarada or other scripts, or
just for
fun if you like to see the "original manuscripts"!

Happy New Year!
Yours,
Gunthard

gm at e-ternals.com




