Origins of the "double-truth"
Well, for some reason or another four days of Indology postings all
arrived at once. So I am somewhat behind on the discussion. There
seems to be some local religious festival disrupting things up in
London or somewhere :-)
Steve writes:
I think you have to be more exact. Gnostic sources may well be too
late. What can you cite from
Middle Platonist sources provably earlier than the first century A.D.
? Neo-Taoist texts are heavily influenced by Buddhism. So again what
exactly is the date of the early material there.
In other words I am not prepared to accept the assertion of
universality entirely on the basis of the simple claim. It might be
right. but it might equally be a case of influence. Or, perhaps of
convergence.
I tend to view that kind of argument as a religious superstition. At
all events, it is highly controversial.
I'll take that up in response to Vidyasankar Sundaresan.
Essential before speculating.
There are only a limited number of ways in which one can think
systematically. That has been known for a very long while. But
shouldn't this analysis be applied to the development of modern
systems of thought too ?
Well, yes and no. I don't doubt that there is something in what you
are saying. But . . .
1. The abhidhamma distinction between sammuti and paramattha derives
from the development of the concepts of attha and dhamma in (later?)
Suttanta literature. (This might have parallels in e.g. early
Vai"se.sika or some brahmanical exegetical traditions but not really
in the Upani.sads.) It is closely related to issues of exegesis, but
I think it would be reductionist to see it only in those terms.
2. When this is adopted into Mahaayaana, the term paramaartha becomes
'translated' as it were and refers to some kind of genuine ultimate
truth or non-truth, sometimes perhaps to an ultimate reality. This is
not really a matter of exegesis, but rather of some type of unitive
philosophy. The origins of this are another question, but the
terminology certainly comes from abhidharma.
I tend to feel that scholarship often has an institutional bias
against 'external' influences. This is perhaps a branch of the 'Not
Invented Here' (NIH) syndrome. Good scholars don't like evidence they
can't evaluate for themselves.
Well, I would certainly see them as that.
You want to take the high ground ?
To me, this seems like a variant of the Protestant methodology first
devised in order to devalue Catholic scholastic traditions. The
problem with the modern development of this position is that,
although it presents itself as impartial, it may in fact be just a
kind of ucchedavaadin religious fundamentalism.
I don't really have any problem with this, as long as it is
recognized that it is just one part of what is going on.
Lance Cousins
HEADINGTON, UK
CURRENT EMAIL ADDRESS:
selwyn at ntlworld.com
