35mm microfilm
Hello, Claude,
we have professional 35mm scanning equipment here--the problem is that the
Indian microfilm material (it contains a fairly large palm-leaf manuscript)
which we are supposed to digitise is on a long ROLL... It's perforated film. The
problem is that we are not allowed to cut it into individual 35mm slides. We
have strip scanning equipment, too, but we are not supposed to even cut it into
strips.
On top of this, neither Kodak nor Agfa recognize the film type used for this
roll. It appears to be of Indian or Russian origin.
I have done a test using a top-end cold-system flat-bed scanner with a dark
chamber transparency unit at maximum resolution, but the material comes out
unclear. The optical resolution is not as high as with the dedicated 35mm
scanner.
So the current work-around is printing the microfilm material out on a microfilm
reader-printer, in this case on A3 paper, then flatbed-scan that on an A3+
scanner. Obviously this is not only cumbersome but also turns out a much lower
quality than if we were able to digitise straight from the film.
The quality problem is compounded by the fact that just like with most
microfilms, it's only gray scales, and very few of them at that, and the
resolution seems to be about a third of what we are used to when we digitise
directly from the original palm-leaf manuscript.
Still, I would be extremely grateful for any information about digitising ROLLS
of 35mm material, or news from anybody who has been involved in something
similar.
I've heard that there are massive amounts of Indian material on precisely this
kind of film, and apparently it decays fast. Some of the material that was
either filmed in India by German indologists or obtained by them from there has
already completely disintegrated, as I was told by a Berlin scholar--the films
just go blank over time.  The earlier one can digitise the material the better.
Anyway, thanks for any help...
Gunthard
Gunthard M?ller
gm at e-ternals.com
Claude Setzer wrote:
