PDF (was publication of IASS papers on CDROM)
Many interesting points.
However, please note that mass storage is what we are talking about, not
removable media. Removable media are just one type of mass storage, as are
tapes, hard disks, floppies, etc.
Without mass storage, there will be no archives at all, no data security,
nothing.
Since day 1, computers have used mass storage. In fact, computer design
requires mass storage. Or have you ever tried to design a data bus without
one??? Even if hard drives disappear (they will), they will be replaced by
another type of mass storage. The technical innards of these are going to
be amazing (they are working on optical transfer and molecular designs
already, and IBM has just released advance notice of a new form of hard
disk based on micro-perforation, etc.), and there will be extremely
long-lasting forms of media in future. There will also be fast
internetworking, and whether the media of the future will be sent by post
or rather transmitted over a network is also of secondary importance. What
is important is that there is no computer without mass storage, as I can
assure you as somebody who has been programming them for around 15 years.
You can make the mass storage remote (over a form of network), but that is
a trivial point. There will always be a form of mass storage. Look out for
mass-storage with up to 500-year estimated life spans next. We already have
200 years of estimated life span now with normal CD-ROMs.
Further, MacOS HFS has ALREADY been superseded by TWO other MacOS file
systems, and the issue has nothing to do with the ISO-9660 issue. MacOS HFS
could easily be superseded because it is not an ISO norm and not accepted
by other platforms. So superseding it was an Apple-internal decision and
therefore bound to happen for ephemeral reasons.
Things are different when norming has taken place.
ISO-9660 is itself a file system and has nothing to do with a single
company or lobby. Is is the normed file system for CD-ROMs. As such it will
be readable in future.
To sum up, we are not talking about backward-compatibity. The issue is to
package data in such a way that they are forward-compatible. By using ISO
norms on all levels involved, we are providing just that.
Concerning TEX: I generally discourage using TEX altogether. Only TEXies (a
special form of esoteric computer guru scene) favours it, because it has
become part of their lifestyle and provides them with a digital survival
zone within which they are indispensable and therefore cannot be abolished.
There is actually no need to use TEX anymore for anything. I have been
involved with writing TEX converters and creating metafonts when that was
an interesting technology (about 12 years ago), but the world has moved on.
You only find TEX gurus nowadays in artificially preserved biotopes where
they can go on playing with dinosaurs without penalty. The rest of the
world has moved on to SGML tools and Unicode. The best thing you can do to
TEX is to convert it to modern formats and then put it on the shelf for
good.
I wonder if it makes sense to devote so much time to tech issues on this
list. I for my part will now go off the list on this topic for a while.
Take care,
Gunthard Mueller
gm at e-ternals.com
Kengo Harimoto wrote:
