>???From  time  immemorial India's ties  with East and Southeast Asia have
been much closer than with Central Asia or Eurasia. Ancient India must
be   re-examined  taking   this  and   other  scientific   facts  into
consideration.

N.S. Rajaram

Background

There  is now  an  active  debate concerning  Vedic  Aryans and  their
relationship  to  the Harappan  Civilization.  The  debate is  focused
mainly  on  the origin of the  Aryans- whether they were indigenous to
India or if they were invaders from outside who entered India from the
northwest  in  the second  millenium before  the Common Era. Beginning
about  the middle  of the nineteenth century, or roughly from the time
the  British  established control over  all of  India, it has been the
official  position that  the Vedas  and the  ancestor of  the Sanskrit
language were brought by invaders from Central Asia or Eurasia or even
Europe.  This  is the famous Aryan  Invasion Theory that is now at the
center of historical debate.

More  than  anything, the Aryan  Invasion Theory (AIT) shows that each
era views history in the light of its own beliefs and experience. As a
product  of the  European colonial period, it is only natural that the
AIT  should embody certain Eurocentric biases. In addition, the theory
was  created  at a  time  when  Indian  archaeology  was still  in  an
embryonic stage, and scientific data from fields like biology, ecology
and  others  was virtually non-existent.  Scholars had little to go by
beyond  the new  field of Comparative Linguistics made possible by the
European  discovery  of  Sanskrit  and its  close  affinities  to  the
languages of Europe.

This  led  them to postulate  a common ancestral language (proto-Indo-
European)  and a common ancestral home they called the Aryan Homeland.
It is now called the Indo-European Homeland. These Aryan invaders were
said  to have entered India and subjugated the natives, imposing their
own  language  and culture upon  them. These original inhabitants were
said  to be  Dravidians, who were driven south by the invading Aryans.
The  Vedic  literature, the Rigveda  in particular, was interpreted in
the light of this theory.

Beginning  in  the early  decades of  the twentieth century, technical
data   also   became   available,   especially   from   archaeological
excavations, notably of the Harappan or the Indus Valley Civilization.
It  was natural  that there should have been attempts to fit these new
findings  to  the already  existing Aryan  Invasion Theory- an attempt
that  still continues. It was suggested that the Harappan Civilization
was  'Dravidian', which  was  destroyed by  the  Aryan invaders.  This
creates  a permanent divide between Harappan archaeology and the Vedic
literature.  But it  was  not  long before  scholars  began to  notice
serious  difficulties. Without going into technical details, these may
be  summarized  as follows: the Harappans,  the creators of one of the
greatest material civilizations of antiquity have no literature, while
the  Vedic Aryans,  the creators  of  the greatest  literature of  the
ancient world have no archaeological existence.

This  is  all the more  puzzling when  we recognize that the Harappans
possessed  writing, while  the Vedic Aryans were said to be illiterate
who  depended on memory for preserving their literature. And yet it is
the literature of the illiterate Aryans that has survived in abundance
while the literate Harappans have vanished without a literary trace.

New data, new problems

As  more technical  data became  available, scholars  began to  notice
serious  contradictions  between data  and  the  theory. For  example,
genetic  studies  showed that  the presence of  any genetic input from
Eurasia  or Europe  in the  Indian population  was negligible  to non-
existent.  Further,  this insignificant imprint  was the same in North
and  South India,  which  flies  in the  face  of the  Aryan-Dravidian
division.  A scientifically  more acceptable  explanation is  that the
physical  differences  among Indians  is the  result adaptation to the
environment  by natural  selection. This  takes tens  of thousands  of
years  and not  centuries or  millennia.  All this  suggests that  the
Indian  population  is very ancient  and not  the result of any recent
migrations or invasions.

There  is  now a  new dimension to  this scenario. Throughout history,
going back untold millennia, India's ties with East Asia and Southeast
Asia have been much closer than that with Central Asia or Europe. This
was  interrupted by  three centuries  of European  colonialism in  the
region,  leading to  a Eurocentric version of history being imposed on
it.  (The  Aryan Invasion  Theory was  a key part  of this.)

In   recent   years,   scholars   have   begun   to   reexamine   many
assumptions  of the  colonial  period, looking  in  particular at  the
physical  and biological  imprint in  the  region. This  has to  begin
with  the  recognition that Indian climate  as well as flora and fauna
are  closely  related  to  those of  Southeast  Asia.  In  particular,
Indian  cattle  (Bos Indicus)  are  domesticated  versions related  to
the  wild  cattle of Southeast Asia  known as the Banteng (Bos Banteng
or Bos Javanicus).

Similarly,  the  Indian horse is a  special breed, close to an ancient
equid  known  as Equus  Sivalensis (the 'Siwalik  Horse'). This or its
close  relative appears  to be the horse described in the Rigveda- and
not  the Central  Asian or the Eurasian variety, which is anatomically
different. (The Rigveda describes the horse as having thirty-four ribs
like the Sivalensis, while Central Asian breeds have thirty-six.) Thus
the  widely  held belief that horses  were unknown in India until they
were brought from Central Asia has no scientific support.

It is a similar story when we examine the human imprint on the region,
especially the genetic evidence. As several experts like Manansala and
Kennedy  recently pointed  out, the skeletal record shows that in most
ways  the Indian population is quite unique. Genetic studies lead to a
similar  conclusion- that  the Indian  population is  very ancient  to
which  the contribution  of  Eurasian strains  is  negligible to  non-
existent. It is a different story when we compare Indian and Southeast
Asian  populations.  Paul Kekai  Manansala  points  out: "The  overall
genetic picture indicates a very old biological relationship, probably
extending  in part  at least to the original migration out of Africa."

The  current understanding is that Africa was the original home of the
entire  human  population now  distributed  all  over the  world.  The
overall genetic picture of Indians is that they are closely related to
the  Southeast Asians,  going  back  tens of  thousands  of years.  In
contrast, their links to Eurasia or Europe find no scientific support.
As  a  result, one thing  can safely  be asserted: Indians are ancient
inhabitants  of  India and  Southeast Asia (or  Greater India) and not
recent immigrants.

Maritime background

