Black as Evil
Several days ago I had the opportunity to watch how people in the
Netherlands celebrate Sinterklaas - Saint Nikolas day, 5th September, when
this Saint, with red dress, red face and long white beard, visits children
and presents them gifts. But guess who is the Saint's companion and helper,
distributing gifts to children? "Zwarte Piet", i.e. the Black Pete,
absolutely black youth with African features - he is even more popular with
children than Sinterklaas himself! And this tradition is at least several
centuries old...
    There are many examples of this kind which contradict "European
traditional thinking on blacks" as it was formulated by L.Polyakov.
Shakespear "associated black skin with evil"? What about Otello - a bit too
"sensuous" maybe, but a tragic hero, no doubt! Great Russian poet Pushkin
(early XIX century) never missed a chance to show how proud he was that his
grandfather was an African (who had become, by the way, a general in the
Russian army). An Indian known under the name "Porus of Vizapur", who seems
to have had very dark skin, was made by the Queen Katherine II (XVIII
century) a Russian nobleman and a high official; his son was a writer who
wrote in French... Such facts do not go well with Polyakov's generalizations
according to which Europeans of that time saw in the Blacks "beasts" or
"apes".
    In every nation there are some people who suffer xenophobia - fear of
strangers, of humans with different physical features. In the less civilized
societies xenophobiacs constitute the majority. With the growth and
refinement of culture xenophobia usually disappears surviving only on
cultural periphery. In the modern world most of the nations reached such a
level of civilization that xenophobic feelings look like an atavism.
    I see no reason at all to continue investigating how bad some whites
considered the blacks to be in the past. And vise versa. Or do you think
that there were never any bad feelings among the Blacks towards the Whites?
Have not you ever heard, e.g., a story about the origine of Whites from the
union of a runaway Black criminal with a swine? Widespread in different
parts of the world. Or the anti-White mythology of the American Black
Muslims? What good it will do if we shall collect foolish stories of this
kind on our List?
    That is why I agree with several list-members who have already said
before: the topic designated "Black as Evil" is harmful and dangerous. We
should better drop it for good.
                            Best regards
                                                                    Yaroslav
Vassilkov
Sent: Saturday, December 09, 2000 7:30 PM
Re: Black as Evil
http://explorer.msn.com
