Dravidian origins and twist of the destiny
I read the article"Pre-rigvedic convergence between Indo-Aryan and
Dravidian? A survey of issues and controversies" by Dr.H.H.Hock. This is a
high level research article with balanced reasoning. It proposes
"Convergence Hypothesis" as opposed to much touted "Subversion Hypothesis".
The whole volume"Ideology and Status of Sanskrit"edited by J.E.M. Houben is
worth reading.If anybody looking for direct answer to Dravidian origins, he
may not find it here.However one immediately realizes that certain theories
based on linguistic research in connection with pre-history of India are
not without controversies. They are not black(Dravidian)and white (Aryan)
truths as projected often in popular publications.The Dravidian origin in
Central Asia is also a theory without archaeological evidence. It is now
clear that Aryas, Dasas and Dasyus form one group and Dravidians(if any)
were separate from them. They could be the existing Indians the new group
might had come across.If Aryas came on the horses,then Dravidians had
elephants to fight with them. The Persiam emperor Darius the Great(522-486
BCE)was interested in recruiting Indian elephants in his army. If elephants
were in India in 5th century BCE, then they were there in 1000 BCE with
their Dravidian mahouts to charge them on invading Aryans.How funny it
looks when one thinks of Aryans clearing forests with their Iron weapons
and Dravidians watching with their elephants.The English word "Afro-
Americans" means Americans of African origins.The word "Indo-Europeans"
should mean the ancient Europeans of the Indian origins.But it underwent
semantic reversal in the Indian sub-continent.Dr.S.K.Chatterji told Hindus
that they were mild diluted brothers(Indians of European origins)of the
aggressive pure white European Aryans(p.32,Indo-Aryan and Hindi, 1969).
Before the discovery of Sanskrit by Europeans in 1785 AD,Indian grammarians
knew the language with Vedic and Laukik words. After 1785, the great grand
mother(Proto-Indo-European) of Sanskrit and the great grand mother (Proto-
Dravidian)of Tamil were born in alien lands. Instead of people giving birth
to languages, under the influence of European scholarship, languages gave
birth to the unknown people named Aryans and Dravidians within the sub-
continent. Strange indeed! After the semantic reversal, locked up
linguistics and hijacked history,appeared the twist of the destiny.
BhasmAsura of Aryan father and Dravidian mother created for the sub-
continent turned to Europe and devoured the very people from whom their
Messiah came to save them.
