Dravidian origins
In a message dated 12/29/2000 4:19:31 AM Central Standard Time,
vijay at VOSSNET.CO.UK writes:
The club analogy is interesting. In "What Congress and Gandhi Have Done to
the Untouchables," Dr. Ambedkar cites his 14th February 1933 Statement on
Temple Entry Bill:
"Not very long  ago there used to be boards on club doors and other social
resorts maintained by Europeans in India, which said "Dogs and Indians" not
allowed. The temples of Hindus carry similar boards to-day, the only
difference is that the boards on the Hindu temples practically say: "All
Hindus and all animals including dogs are admitted, only Untouchables not
admitted." The situation in both cases is on a parity. But Hindus never
begged to for admission in those places from which the Europeans in their
arrogance had excluded them. Why should an Untouchable beg for admission in a
place from which he has been excluded by the arrogance of the Hindus? This is
the reason of the Depressed Class man who is interested in his material
welfare. He is prepared to say to the Hindus, "to open or not to open your
temples is a question for you to consider and not for me to agitate. If you
think, it is bad manners not to respect the sacredness of human personality,
open your temples and be a gentleman. If you rather be a Hindu than be
gentleman, then shut the doors and damn yourself for I don't care to come."
Clearly, the effect of Indian "clubs" can be seen in the articles below.
http://www.indiaserver.com/thehindu/1999ft/01/31/stories/13310611.htm
http://www.indiaserver.com/thehindu/1999ft/02/07/stories/13070612.htm
But, the Shanar movement for social/economic advancement followed a different
path.
An important factor in the advancement of this community was the Christian
missionary activity.  In 1858, the demand for Shanan women to wear a cloth
covering their breasts led to riots. But for the missionary help, the Shanan
women would not have been allowed to wear a cloth covering their breasts in
Southern Travancore which was given by Sir Charles Trevelyen, the governor of
Madras in 1859.
(continued)
