nAraNa_n, the tamil word for nArAyaNa (was: Vishnu)
This is fantastic and certainly most laudable. We need to know our
roots, however long that would take and whatever be the age from which
this learning process started. The problem, is however, this knowledge
has so far , been restricted to the few "educated elite intelligentia"
- many of whose personal biases have greatly tarnished certain info.
For example, the poet Kannadasan, once indulged in the worst criticism
of Hindu religion but it took him severe losses in personal life to
get that awakening and then write great works about Hindu religious
stuff. His tamil version of kanakadhaara stotram, if I remember well,
had its blessings from the Kanchi Shankaracharya. Now the question
is, how man tamilians, leave all Indologists and people of other
languages here - have read the work and learnt ?
That is why, we need the works of Indologists be translated - without
biases - let the truth be written as truth - and be made available
to the masses - who must also be literate enough to read and
understand.
While I certainly in agreement that 'out of scientific/scholarly
curiosity (in plain English, to have fun)' is true ( that is why
I too joined this list ), those enlightened persons must see to it
that once their curiosity is answered, they do take the effort to
help others understand the same.
"aayiram undingu jaathi, yenil anniyan vandhu pugal enna needhi" .. ???
The main problem is the education, either the lack of it or insufficient
exposure to it. The above mentioned topics are explosive solely because
there is a lack of dignity to human life, esp. of a lower caste person.
Skin color, casteism, untouchability, aryan invasion theory, dravidian
idealogy, role of sanskrit - all dwell from the source - evil casteism.
Name calling is done because people refuse to accept facts. So the only
way to stop the discussion is to go in for personal attack.
There in lies the problem. Classic case of election results - Educated
people do not vote and complain why such lousy politicians were elected
(by the illiterate masses). Experts must shed their personal biases,
either political or religious or other, and must focus on enlightening
the people about the issues. The problem, is they do, but with all their
personal biases of all kinds evident in their writings. Hence the
problems only becomes complex.
Why pay for something you could get for free?
NetZero provides FREE Internet Access and Email
http://www.netzero.net/download/index.html
