boundary". From here "NArAya.NA" is close if he makes efforts to go beyond
(Ayana).
I like the concrete examples of Einstin's and Newton's theories in
connection with "double truth".Could any one kindly suggest Sanskrit terms
for Ontology(Theory of Being) and Epistemology(Theory of Knowledge)?
To me there is no double truth in Formless YHWH and "YHWH walking in the
Garden of AEden".Yahu god came from the East. There were singers of songs
of Yahu god in the middle-east before Jewish traditions.He broke the rocks
and brought out waters.In the East where the Heaven met the Earth,in the
North was the Garden of Heaven and in the South was the Garden of AEden.
"Hafta bolA ki yaha mera HaftA Alla hai"
"Jamin boli ki yeh mera KAlA Kamalivala hai"
[Heaven said this is my Heavenly God, Earth said this is my black
blanketvala God].This is not "SUfi or "goofy". It becomes straight when one
gets rid of antropological "Mumbo-Jumbo" as applied to the traditions of
the ancient East.
What is the difference between "VijqAna" and "PrajqA" or "PrajqAna"? Both
mean intelligence, knowledge etc. Sometimes "PrajqA" is used
for "judgement" (wrong or right?)I have difficulty in understanding the
difference between "Dharma" and "Abhidharma"? Where you use one and where
the other" In the same way what is the difference between "Sandhi"
and "Abhisandhi"?
For a long time in the West,philosophy was thought to be concerned with the
established truths of a very general kind, with metaphysics and ethics,
with other truths to be arrived at through the power of reasoning. In this
scheme, philosophy of language occupied no important place. Since
Descartes, it was noticed that the starting point of the subject was
epistemology. Later some analytical philosophers believed that"philosophy
of language" in a specific sense should constitute the starting point of
philosophical studies. In a specific sense, the philosophy of language was
part of Indian philosophical activity from the beginning of its history
(B.K.Matilal-The Word and the World).
At times almost excessive preoccupation with language on the one hand and
with philosophy on the other,may indeed be regarded as characteristic of
Indian civilization(Staal,1969, Sanskrit Philosophy of Language).
What is the result of this preoccupation of 2500 years of known history? We
got stuck on"Shabda" and "Shabda-pramA.NA" when others reached the Moon.For
the past 150 years,the alien scholarship has created a new amusement game
for us called Sanskrit-Dravidian EtymA-rAmA. My suggestion is this-Perform
Yajnya, recite Vedic Mantras, kill a goat and produce a mouse out of the
Yajnya Fire. Efficiency = mouse/goat < 1. It is better than dry discussions
of 2500 years. If it is magic(science of magi-Maghavan-Indra), so be it!
