Genetics issues in ancient India
I wrote:
Vidyasankar Sundaresan responded:
You've distorted my message, whose intent was to point to the
abstracts of fifteen genetics papers potentially relevant (either
way) to the Aryan question. I took no stand either way in the
post on the Aryan migration issue itself. Those abstracts are
listed at http://www.safarmer.com/genetics.
But NB: What I said was that mtDNA studies "may not be as
relevant" as studies of y-chromosome polymorphisms to the Aryan
question ? not that they "may not be relevant" at all. This
difference isn't trivial.
Moreover, your claim that methodological problems in the use of
mtDNA studies only arise for "those who assume that the incoming
Aryans were all male, who took native female partners" is by no
means correct. It is common for dominant/elite males in migratory
cultures, whether or not they are accompanied by females, to mate
with native females. This skews mtDNA data in ways that do not
occur when you use studies of y-chromosome polymorphisms, which
exclusively pertain to paternal lines. Hence the enormous
interest at present in population genetics in studies of
y-chromosome polymorphisms.
You write:
What you say is correct, but it further undercuts your own
position. The data published by Strauss in _Science_ 286 (24 Dec.
1999) suggests that paternal and maternal mtDNA sometimes do
undergo sexual recombination. How and when this occurs is not
currently known. What *is* certain is that if this is a normal
situation, the value of mtDNA studies in investigating
migrational patterns is attenuated even further. The so-called
Eve thesis, for example, which is already under attack for
different reasons, would collapse completely. This points again
to the increasing importance to migrational studies of data on
y-chromosome polymorphisms -- as suggested in my post.
Again, a friend from Cavalli-Sforza's group, a specialist both in
migrational and y-chromosome and mtDNA issues, will report on the
relevance of these questions specifically to the Aryan problem at
a Harvard conference next May.
In sum: There are good reasons why population geneticists
currently place more hope in studies of y-chromosome
polymorphisms, and not in mtDNA research, in attempting to
unravel migrational issues.
Steve Farmer
