35 mm microfilm / manuscripts
Dear Claude,
thank you very much for your thoughtful suggestions.
Your idea about having a contact film done sounds like a good way to go.
But
before I go that way (after all it's another copying process), I'll try
to
explore the other paths.
Unfortunately, we have already looked into the input part of our film
strip
scanning system (Nikon), and it doesn't look modifiable. But you are
right, one
should follow that alley a bit more. I'll get in touch with Nikon and
check if
they have an idea.
Dr. Feistel (director of the Oriental Department of the Staatsbibliothek
Berlin)
has also informed me today that Xerox is thought to make a product that
might
work for 35mm rolls. I'll explore that tomorrow, too.
In the meantime, I have been told today that I might be getting a film
piece
made with the same or very similar film type, and we are going to cut
that up
and check if our scanning system yields the expected quality. If that is
so, we
might get a second edition of the Baroda microfilm and then cut that one
up.
I am not sure how often we will have this problem, so I think I'll wait
with
investing in a customized scanner solution at least for the moment, and
as long
as we haven't fully explored the above alternatives.
I'll keep you posted!
What we have access to:
we have put together a state-of-the-art digitisation system and
developed
special publishing software for digitising and publishing original
Indian
manuscripts and prints. We normally digitise directly, without
microfilm. The
quality with direct digitisation is infinitely better than microfilm--no
comparison in fact (full colour, very high resolution, no or minimal
loss of
contrast, minimal light intensity, etc.).
We have also developed a special algorithm for digitally blackening palm
leaves
that were not physically blackened. The result looks eerily like a
physically
blackened leaf, but without the damage that physical blackening normally
entails.
And: we can now finally PRINT unblackened palm-leaf books! We digitise
them,
blacken them digitally, then print them. The result is so good that some
scholars to whom we showed colour prints of physically blackened palm
leaves and
some of our digitally blackened ones could not discern which one was
which!
We are able to digitise through glass panes, which was very difficult
using
photo cameras.
We digitise without flash, in other words we don't "bomb" the material
with very
high lux levels. (The flash has the danger of starting chemical
reactions in the
material, which has so far prevented the digitisation of many sensitive
materials.)
We publish both the authentic (unblackened) and the digitally blackened
versions
together on digital media. We publish two types of media: (1) normed
archive
versions (normed data carriers, especially ISO-9660 CDs), (2)
installation-free
multimedia versions including special software for high-resolution
zooming,
moving the leaf on the screen, an autoreader that reads the palm leaf
aloud
(great for learning Grantha or Sarada, coming soon), flipping the page
etc.; for
Macintosh and Windows. We also commission scholars to write
introductions and
other contributions for the CDs.
We pay royalties to the institutions or individuals who preserve the
original
manuscript, and to the scholars who contribute academic input.
To make all this affordable we prize the CDs at only US$10,-- for
individual
scholars, and US$100,-- for an unlimited internal-use license for
organisations
(university libraries, research institutes, etc.).
We are currently digitising many thousand manuscripts in India itself.
Some of
the manuscripts are very exciting, many of them never published before.
We are
expecting the first CD-ROM editions from these around mid-March. We are
partly
an Indian organisation, and we are very lucky in that many Indian
institutions
who preserve original manuscripts have already approached us and have
offered
cooperation.
We have also got good relations with the German National Library in
Berlin, and
we hope that next year we will be allowed to publish some of their
amazing
treasures, among them for example the probably oldest existing palm leaf
(we
have already digitised it). They also have beautiful material like
gold-and-colour miniature paintings, very exquisite, from the Jehangir
collection. We have already digitised a sample. There are also wonderful
birch-bark texts in Sarada script. We might also publish other
materials,
especially Chinese, Tibetan, Mongolian. Possibly also some very
exquisite Jewish
material.
Similarly, we are in touch with other libraries, museums, archives and
other
organisations around the world for possible cooperation.
Currently available are:
(1) The Tattva-viveka by Pillai Lokacharya (13th century, Sanskrit, in
Grantha
script), discovered by Prof. M. A. Venkatakrishnan, University of
Chennai in a
manuscript from Melkote. With a preface by Dr. Srilata Mueller,
University of
Heidelberg.
(2) A hitherto unpublished manuscript, a commentary on the Mudal
Tiruvandadi of
Pogai Alvar (100 Tamil verses), thought to be by Nampillai. With a
preface by
Dr. M. A. Venkatakrishnan, University of Chennai. This edition is in the
quality
check now, available from January.
In preparation: a multimedia edition of the gadyatrayam, and a
transliteration
and a translation of the above Tattva-viveka.
