PDF (was publication of IASS papers on CDROM)
Dear Richard,
my only issue in the last mail was with people who ENFORCE TeX on others. There
are such people, believe me.
You seem to be somebody who uses TeX successfully. Perfect -- why not use it if
it works for you.
Nobody would deny that TeX is a powerful programming language.
But it is a programming language, something for power users like yourself, not a
tool with which ordinary computer mortals can work. That's a fact. I am not
inventing that. And it's not anybody marginalising TeX, it's TeX itself leaving
the building. Tools have a lifetime, and so have software tools. Factually, TeX
is dead outside of two settings:
(1) Power users who have an affinity to programming.
(2) Some mostly academic computing services.
Reason for its virtual disappearance: usability. With TeX, you have to PROGRAM
footnotes. But normal users (i.e. non-programmers) with a time schedule for
finishing their books don't want to program footnotes. You want to edit them in a
user-friendly way, visually, in a standard software package that doesn't force
you to become an outsider to the computer world just because you happen to write
indological content. If you have already learnt it (like you have, and by the
way, my humble self), then why not go on using it. I for one have found myself to
be so much more productive with powerful packages such as Adobe FrameMaker/SGML
or some other good packages around. These can also be taught to regular users who
don't want to program their text, but write it... Their output can easily be made
compatible with international document norms, without programming knowledge.
Again, if you can achieve that with TeX, why not go on using it. But I am sure
you will agree that many of our colleagues find TeX a user-hostile thing, and
don't want to become programmers.
Anyway, I have no vested interest in fighting TeX, and I was only recommending
that TeX should not be artificially kept alive against the interest of normal
users for reasons that are not technical. The people who are playing this game
will know what I mean...
So please don't force me to talk about TeX. I'd rather read some more on things
like preserving Indian birch-bark and palm-leaf manuscripts, writing usable
metadata for them, digitizing them, publishing them, publishing articles and
books about them. The issue we were discussing was making data exchange easy to
do and safe for the future. Nobody denies you your constitutional right to choose
whatever software tool you wish to create your data with in the first place. What
concerned us was how to present the resulting data to colleagues now and in
future.
Anyway, sorry if I rubbed some TeXies the wrong way. No, I don't think you are
perverse. I just think you are way more computer-savvy than virtually all of us,
and that's without flattery.
Yours,
Gunthard Mueller
gm at e-ternals.com
My problem is not with (1) the power user, nor (2) the computing services that
for some internal reason cannot take the next step.
My problem is
Richard B Mahoney wrote:
