Re. Devaraja
<<Among the Khmer, the cult of the Devaraja emerged
during the ninth-century reign of Jayavarman II. At
this time, the previously dominant Zakti religion
based mainly on fecundity and the life-giving energy
of nature   was modified anew or replaced by a
politicized form of Zaivism founded on rites of the
Devaraja. This would seem to imply nothing less than a
king's personal deification by merging his soul with
the essence of Ziva's subtle being.>>
Khmer prediliction for Linga and Devaraja began much, much earlier, since
the very founding of the kingdom, according to Chinese sources.
Ling-kia-po-po referred to in Chinese is Lingaparvata in Skt. Kambu
Swayambhuva, Kaundinya, etc (early references of 1/2 AD) shows Khmer links
with Linga concept. It is believed that Kaundinya could well have been a
run-away prince during Kanishka's time who founded the early Khmer empire.
At any rate, rudravarman, Bhavavarman, Mahendravarman, Ishanavarman, all of
whom were Linga worshippers and well preceded the 9th Cwentury. The worship
of Harihara (Siva and Vishnu in a single form) during the 6/7th Century is
similar to the ones found in the Pallava period of 450AD.
Nothing (NOTHING) seems to have been modified anew, since the concept was
simply transported from the texts of Saiva Siddhanta and Kashmira Saiva
siddhanta in perticular. Linga does not mean phallic except in the Tantra
context. Linga, according to Saiva siddhanta, means symbol, a mark, a sign,
an emblem. In Vedanta it means the subtle frame or body, the indestructible
origin of the visible gross form. Khmer kings seem to have used the Linga as
a symbol in the context of their conquests (to mark their extent of
teritory), upon which they inscribed poems of royal praise.
They installed Lingas in the cave space of the mountains to indicate the
Vedantic concept of the subtle Linga sarira. Shakti cult does not seem to
have taken deep roots here. " A King's personal deification is different
from saying the king identified his own subtle Spirit with the subtle body
(Linga Sarira) of Siva (Truth). There is a subtle difference here!
Radhika
Tantra
Sent: Saturday, December 16, 2000 10:20 PM
Re. Devaraja
N. Ganesan wrote: <<Cambodia had a King Mahendravarman
almost at the same time as Pallava Mahendravarman.>>
I see the apparent connection you draw, but could not
"Mahendra" simply have been a popular royal name for
the period? All the same, it may be of interest to
review the incident in 802 when the Hiranyadama
accompanied His Majesty King Jayavarman II and his
esteemed guru Zivakaivalya into the depths of the
moss-laden forests of *Mahendraparvata* (present-day
Mt. Kulen). It was there that the brahman "of apparent
Indian birth" satisfied the king by performing the
rites of the Devaraja so that the king would become
the cakravartin. Afterwards, Hiranyadama turned to the
king s own guru and revealed the secrets of the
Tantric rites, even teaching him the pertinent Tantric
texts.
VT
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Shopping - Thousands of Stores. Millions of Products.
http://shopping.yahoo.com/
