From vasubandhu at EARTHLINK.NET  Tue Oct 14 22:30:24 2008
From: vasubandhu at EARTHLINK.NET (Dan Lusthaus)
Date: Tue, 14 Oct 08 18:30:24 -0400
Subject: Sanskrit Compounds
Message-ID: <161227083645.23782.12330027626622474018.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear list,

I'm hoping someone with a better knowledge of the history of the Sanskrit grammatical traditions, particularly those that deliberately deviated from Panini-Patanjali, can help with this query.

Traditionally the paninian tradition holds that there are four major categories of compounds which are then variously subdivided. In East Asia, when Xuanzang (600-664) introduced some of the Sanskrit grammatical tradition he had learned in India, he provided a list of six compounds, which have become the "standard" typology in East Asia ever since (though modern scholars have returned to the paninian models, via Western studies). The six are (as commonly 'explained' in Chinese texts):

1. tat-puru?a ? dependent compound, in which the first noun modifies the second noun . 
2. dva?dva ? a compound in which both elements are equal ( 'mountains and temples' ). A term indicating two separate ideas, e. g. teaching and meditation. 
3. karma-dh?raya ?a compound in which the first element is an adjective or adverb, and the second element a noun or adjective, respectively ( 'high mountain,' 'very high' ). May also indicate two nouns in apposition, referring to the equality of dependence of both terms, e. g.  Mah?-y?na, 'great' and 'vehicle'. 
4. dvigu ? a compound in which the first element is a numeral. 
5. avyay?-bh?va ? An adverbial compound , or a term resulting from 'neighboring' association.  
6. bahu-vr?hi ?a compound of two or more elements which is used adjectivally ( 'black robe' used adjectivally? 'black-robed man' ); the sign of possession.  

Note, for instance, that in this classification that karmadh?raya is treated as distinct from tatpuru?a.

According to M. Srimannarayana Murti's _Sanskrit Compounds: A Philosophical Study_ (1974,  Chowkhamba Sanskrit Series Office, v. 93. V?r??as?.), this list of six was known as an alternative to P??ini in India, but the works he cites that expound it -- Mugdhabodhavy?kara?a of Vipadeva, S?rasvatavy?kara?a of Anubh?tisvar?p?c?rya and ?abda?aktiprak??ika of Jagad??a -- are much later than Xuanzang (Hsuan-tsang, Hiuen-tsang, etc.). 

Does anyone know of works or grammatical schools -- either with extant texts or by implication from citations in other works -- that promoted this sixfold classification before or during Xuanzang's time?

Thank you.

Dan Lusthaus




