Uttara Kuru
I went through the the Indology Archives and found some
interesting info posted by the list members:
Mr.Powers,Ms.Thillaud,Mr.Seldeslachts, Mr.Sharma and Mr.Paul Manan
and a belated thanks to all of them.
It seems to me that Uttara Kuru and Tocharian seems to be
taken more seriously.
1)The geographical description of Uttara Kuru and Tocharian
  seem to match according to Monier Williams dictionary
2)Hyperboreans:
  In North India all the people know of the cold Eastern Wind
  that blows called "Puruvayya" - this word is used in many
  romantic poems and hindi film songs. If there is a North Wind
  that blows then I presume it would be called the Uttariya,and the
  Greeks would have dutifully recorded it as HyperBorean.
  The question is whethar there is indeed a wind
  that blows down into India from the North.
3)The Mahabharata's description seems to match the geographical location.
  Also, in Dr.Kalyanaramans website at http://www.probys.com/sarasvati/
  he lists how accurate the Mahabharata has been with respect to the
geography of the Saraswati river and location of cities.
4)Buddhist influence was present in Tocharian. It is very possible
  that it was frequented by Buddhist monks. This raises another possibility
  and a Very Important question.
  - If Buddhist influence can find its way into Tocharian, then is it not
  possible that Pre-Buddhist and Vedic influence from India also found its
  way into the area ?.
According to Dr.Mair, the nomads used to trade with the people in the
plains for their grains, without which their nutrition needs wouldnt be met.
In my opinion, one of the most fertile places in the world
for growing grains is the Punjab and it is very plausible that there was
trade between the Tajiks and people of the Punjab/Haryana region.
There is another interesting thing:
Kashmiri Pandits believe that the Kashmir Valley of today is very different
from what it was in ancient times. According to them,the whole of the
Kashmir valley was under water. This is very possible because that region
is pretty active geologically and prone to earthquakes, as the Indian
plate strikes the Asian land mass.
Subrahmanya.
