women's intelligence
Thank you Sara, and everyone who responded to my query privately or on the
list.  Perhaps I could make a couple more comments in case anyone is
interested in pursuing this thread.  I have not yet collected all the
references that have come in, some of which might pertain to my specific
point of inquiry. 
	Women are often aligned with sudras, vaishyas or children, etc
and referred to in a demeaning fashion (ie Bhagavad Gita 9:32).  There are
also various statements denoting an idea of striipraj~naa, etc and
individual women also often refer to themselves as mandhadhii.h when
approaching spiritual personalities.  But most of these statements seem
explainable by the fact that women were generally denied higher learning
and the focus or object of their intelligence was traditionally associated
with the hearth, home and offspring, etc.  With the rise of the ascetic
Upanisadic/Buddhistic traditions, these domestic chores became relegated
to the samsaric, inferior realm, and therefore, by extension, women's
intelligence that had traditionally been tied up with this realm due to
most women's  social circumstances, was often described as inferior or
particular to women, or dull, etc.  And there are anecdotes as early as
the Upani.sads that reveal that when women are able to step outside of
these circumstances they often surprise the so-called intelligent men with
their intellectual abilities.
	My query is whether there is any indication in the Sanskritic
tradition (at any historical point) that the actual intelligence
itself--the cognitive faculty--of women was considered inferior to men's
(as opposed to the *focus* of the intelligence or the social or cultural 
realm within which it was applied). In other words, regardless of social
circumstance, whether women's buddhi, or dhii, or praj~naa was a priori,
constitutionally and inherently considered to be inferior or lesser than a
man's.  
	Bhagavat Purana 4:4:3 notes that Sati is strai.navimuu.dhadhii.
But this could be explained in the manner outlined above (ie her
intelligence was focused on [bewildered by] her concern for her family).
The same text (7:7:16) has Narada stating that, unlike him, his mother had
forgotten the instructions of the sages due to striitvat.  This would seem
to be an essentialized comment about the memory of women as a gender
group (although memory is not quite the same as intelligence).  Here,
again, it could be argued that as a single mother, Narada's mother had to
focus on rearing her child and the traditional chores of womanhood and
therefore had to relegate other topics to the background.  Is there
anything really specific about women's intelligence that cannot be
contextualized in this fashion?  
	Again, your references may have already thrown some light on
this, but I just wanted to throw this out again before the thread dies.
Many thanks,    Edwin Bryant
On Fri, 30 Jan 1998, Sara McClintock wrote:
