GODS HELPLINE(fwd)
Dear Indologists,
        I thought you may enjoy reading this!
                Madhav Deshpande
All of us have, at sometime or other been in the doldrums....
At such times, we, turn to the GODS for help....
In modern times however, with changing times, all the GODS have E-Mail
so that
the likes of us can ask for their help easily....
The following are the E-Mail addresses, if you were ever to need
them....
If you wanted to get rid of obstacles in your way, you should mail to:
      ganesha at kailasa.OnMouse.com
 If you wanted to "create" something.... anything, you should mail to:
      brahma at satyaloka.OnLotus.com
If you wanted help with anything at all, you should try:
      vishnu at vaikunTHa.OnAdishesha.com
If you wanted to destroy any thing, then your destination is:
      rudra at kailasa.OnNandi.com
If you were in dire need of money you should try:
      lakshmi at vaikuntha.ByVishnu.com or kubera at swarga.com
If you are in pursuit of knowledge then,
      saraswati at satyaloka.WithVeena.com or brihaspathi at swarga.com
If you want combat evil (Rakshasas) advice can be found at:
      indra at swarga.OnAiravat.WithVajra.com
(For ladies) If you wish your husband a long life:
      gowri at kailasa.com
Advice for this can be found at
      Savitri at madradesha.com
If your place is drought ridden, then you should contact:
      varuna at swarga.com
If you are feeling very cold, then try:
      agni at swarga.com
IF you absolutely NEED a date, then try:
      urvashi at swarga.withindra.com
      rambha at swarga.withindra.com
      menaka at swarga.withindra.com
      tilotthama at swarga.withindra.com
Also can be contacted when you are feeling very down or when you want to
destroy sombody's (your competitor when in school/college? concentration
If you are travelling in a hot country, for a cool breeze contact:
      vayu at swarga.com
If you are ever lost anywhere in the world, contact:
      Ashtadikpalakas at swarga.com
If you were in the darkness light can be obtained from:
      Surya at Akasha.com
If you were in a romantic mood then, for moonlight, contact:
      chandra at Akasha.com
If at all you feel that your character needs a little building up, then
yourhelpline would be:
      rama at ayodhya.com
Suppose you had no access to (on-line? ) newspapers, then for keeping up
with
the times, try:
      Narada at everywhere.anywhere.com
      OR
      Narada at anywhere.anytime.com
When you fall ill, instead of visiting a (very costly) doctor, try:
      ashwini at swarga.twins.com
If ever you felt like getting something (but were not able to), you
should have
contacted:
      kamadhenu at rishiashramAs.edu
      or
      kalpavrikhsa at rishiashramas.edu
Finally, if you've had enough of this world, (and enough of reading such
useless
things) then your contact will be:
      yama at yamaloka.onbuffalo.com
BEST OF LUCK ......
The views expressed are those of the sender and do not necessarily
represent the views of Northwest Airlines, Inc.
Sumedh Thakar
Patni Computer Systems Ltd., INDIA
Software Tech. Park, MIDC, Bhosari, Pune 411 026
E-mail: thakarss at pcsbom.patni.com
Tel : [O] +91-212-792727  +91-212-799125  Ext: 271
      [R] +91-212-337069
Fax : [O] +91-212-791882
Home Page: http://www.patni.com
