Kotishila
I work now for decades (pardon about 1 decade)
about the Prakrit literature of the Jains that
follows on the canonical scripts, e. g. mainly the
still unpublished commentaries on the Avashyakas,
which despite of the title delivers a complete
picture of the Jain religious system in
post-canonical time. As you propably know, this
literature suggests to present all the stuff which
is still missing for a complete description of the
Jain religion.
Apart of the religious themes this sources record
a huge amount of tales and illustration, (one part
about the namaskara-prayer includes more then 100
illustrations, which I published critically on my
Ph D - beside a translation).
Today we can already speak definitly: Hemacandras
63carita is a poetic Sanskrit work that is based
on this source,  a great part of the tales
recorded in 63carita is already known in the early
Prakrit version of these commentaries.
I did never search for Jain tales about Krisna.
Laksmana etc, but I also never came across any
story which mentioned this names.
Just the last week I took the first time a view to
the Harivamsapurana, here there seems to be the
stories you are looking for and I suppose that you
will find some early parts of the stories of the
Harivamsapurana in the Vasudevahindi.
There is an absolut important book for you about
the Harivamsapurana from
Ludwig Alsdorf, Harivamsapurana, Alt- und
Neu-Indische Studien, 5 (1936) - edited at the
University of Hamburg.
While this book is written in German you may find
some english references to this book in the
english translation of the Vasudevahindi:
Ch. Jain, The Vasudevahindi, L. D. Series
(Ahmedabad, 1977)
from the same author:
Life in Ancient India as depicted in the Jaina
canon, Delhi, 1984.
See Further: Abhidhanarajendra and the Agamic
Index Prakrit Proper Names.
Good Luck
Von: Yigal Bronner <yigal at MD2.VSNL.NET.IN>
An: INDOLOGY at LISTSERV.LIV.AC.UK
<INDOLOGY at LISTSERV.LIV.AC.UK>
Datum: Freitag, 16. Januar 1998 03:06
Betreff: Re: Kotishila
Puranas
Puranas--basically any
Zalaakapurushas, including
vasudevas, baladevas and
the Jain Ramayanas and
of Rama (Padma, Pauma)
numerous versions beginning
story usually centers more
and Jarasandha than on the
Harivamsapurana or the
connects both Laksmana and
would like to know whether
and how exactly the
