Tamil words in English
lower:) )
I would feel rather relieved if some Indian participants in the debate would
discover that there have been Indologists in the West since Max Mueller. And
that no modern Indologist or specialist in comparative linguistics believe
in the "Aryan invasion theory" simply because Max Mueller said so (which is
pretty much what Rajaram implies).
I have seen some of the evidence from archaeology, astronomy etc that
Rajaram uses in his argumentation, and I am not very impressed. As for
retrofitting, the same accusation could easily be levelled against the
Darwinist doctrine, where the basic model is accepted by biology without
question, but where details are discussed on a regular basis. I am quite
certain that the same is true of other branches of science. (e.g. the theory
of the expanding/possibly contracting universe as against the "steady state"
model, where the latter now seems to be out of the picture, and we are left
with a discussion of the how exactly the first alternative works).
There may not be a mystery at all. The archaeological argument is an
argumentum ex nihilo. The fact that nothing is found, does not necessarily
mean that nothing was there. It only means that nothing has been found.
There may not even be a lot to find. Migrating people do not necessarily
leave a trail of artifacts after them. Try, e.g. Gypsy archaeology!
Indian languages have been in contact for several thousand years, and this
creates similarities between languages, even if they don't belong to the
same families. Similar phenomena are found in Europe. Finnish [a Finno-Ugric
language] has a verbal system that clearly has been influenced by the
Indo-European languages Finnish has been in contact with for the last
millennia. Hungarian, another Finno-Ugric language, got its relative
sentences from neighbouring Indo-European languages. When in contact,
languages exchange vocabulary, idiomatic expressions and even grammatical
structures! I believe this is the subject of a branch of scholarship called
"contact linguistics". You should try it some day!
I am sorry that I am waving my hand at you like this!
Best regards,
Lars Martin Fosse
Dr.art. Lars Martin Fosse
Haugerudvn. 76, Leil. 114,
0674 Oslo
Fax: +47 22 32 12 19
Email: lmfosse at online.no
Mobile phone: 90 91 91 45
