Melkote ASR Seminar on Taittireyopanisad
Academy of Sanskrit Research, Melkote 571 431
Vol. 9				               
October-December  1997			       			 No.4
Seminar on Taittireyopanisad
	Academy organised a Seminar on Taittireyopanisad on 18.11.97 and 
19.11.97 in the premises of  Jawaharlal  Nehru Centre for Advanced 
Scientific Research, Bangalore. Prof. M.A.Lakshmithathachar in his 
welcome speech gave a brief account of the various activities of the 
Academy  especially   its  role in bringing together  the  traditional 
Pundits and modern Scientists on a common platform. Noted Scientist Prof. 
Roddam Narasimha, Director, National Institute of Advanced Studies, 
Bangalore, inagurating the seminar said how one can easily learn Sanskrit 
by remaining in any corner of the world in this advanced age of Science 
and Technology and especially in the field of Electronics, Computers, 
Networking and Communication. Speaking on Taittireyopanisad he said that 
the eternal principles such as student-teacher relationship, the 
discipline, ethics and the code of conduct, knowledge and experiences as 
explained in the Upanisads still speak to a large number of people even 
today with such a clarity, dignity and magic and lead them in the right path.
	Sri M.A.S.Rajan in the course of his Presidential  remarks said 
that essentially the work carried out in the Academy is the preparation 
of Sanskrit research material, such as critical editions, word 
encyclopedias, bibliographies, and so on, as to attend to their printing 
and publication.  Undoubtedly the field of Sanskrit or Kannada 
publication was not virgin territory.  So, one of the first concerns was 
to eschew imitation and redundancy.  Ensuring scholarly excellence was 
another strong requirement. Publications were chosen with great care, 
with an eye on the gaps in existing scholarly literature.  By and large, 
outstanding commentaries not widely known, were  utilized.  The  Academys 
encyclopedias and directories are entirely  new, and fill a known lacuna 
in scholarly literature.
	He went on to add that mention of the word research usually calls 
to mind the most common and dramatic  kind of research, namely 
scientific  research. Since not all topics, taken from the scriptures,  
are  amenable  to scientific examination-nation, one needs  to  be  
selective  and  pick up topics which deal with phenomena and material 
objects but  not the texts which are based on intuitive  experience?  
This  is  an  issue  that needs to be given deep thought before choosing 
topics of study.
	Concluding, he felt that one point seemed to be clear.  Each of 
the domains such as Scientific or  Philosophic has a frontier and those 
from either side looking across the frontier, have to do so with a 
certain regard for the erudition and integrity of those on the other 
side.  
	Dr. N.S.Anantha Rangachar in his keynote address  gave  a  
detailed  description  on the contents, structure  and  the  greatness   
of   the  Upanisad and its relevance to the modern age.
	Apart from the scholars of the Academy  many other scholars 
participated in the Seminar and presented papers.
  Following  were  the  papers presented in the seminar :
	1.  Panditaratnam  K.S.Varadacharya  - Message of the Taittireyopanisad
	2. Dr. N.S.Anantha Rangachar - Siksavalli   A study
	3.  Prof. M.A.Lakshmithathachar &  Dr.M.A. Jayashree -The five 
sheaths in Taittireyopanisad
	4. Vidvan N.K. Srinivasa Iyengar -  Taittireyopanisad & Shanti 
Pata 
	5. Dr. P.Narasimhan  - Satyam Jnanam Anantam Brahma
	6. Vidvan S.Narasaraja Bhattar - Sribhasya and Taittireyopanisad
  	7. Vidvan S.Narayana -  Taittireyopanisad - Text and its commentaries
	8. Vidvan M.A.Alwar- Puccha Brahmavada
	9. Vidvan B.V.Ramapriya - Bhoktr Bhogya sahitya vicara
	10. Vidvan V.Sowmyanarayanan - Brahman as blissful (Ananda 
Meemamsa  as explained in    Bhagavadvisayam)
	On 19.11.1997 in the Valedictory Session Prof. B.V.Sreekantan, 
Radhakrishna Visiting Professor,  NIAS,  while delivering  his 
valedictory address spoke on Consciousness in Upanisads. Sri 
B.K.Bhattacharya, IAS., Chief Secretary  Government of Karnataka in his 
presidential  remarks beautifully brought out the impact of the upanisads 
on the lives of Sri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa and  Ravindranath  Tagore and 
also mentioned about the insights he got, with regard to the intuitive 
and mystic experiences of the Upanisadic seers. H.H.Rangapriya Swamiji 
blessed the audience and the organisers of the seminar.
	A Short Term Course on Vedanta in day to day life was organised 
by the Academy from October 25th to 29th  in   Jawaharlal   Nehru Centre 
for  Advanced  Research, Bangalore. This was inagurated by H.H.Rangapriya 
Swami with the lighting of a lamp, the jnana depa.  Swamiji in his  first 
lecture showered his blessings on the audience,  who were from all walks 
of life both men and women, students, working and retired professionals.  
Before stepping into the field of Vedanta every seeker of knowledge 
should try to find the answer to the question `Who am I?.  Answering this 
question he said every individual is  not  merely the physical body but 
also the individual soul inhabiting and controlling the body.  Further he 
has also the inner soul or the Lord who is all pervasive. The initial 
response ignited by Sri Swamiji was  followed  by the enlightening  
lectures of  several   scholars of  profundity, who kept intact the zeal  
and enthusiasm- of  the participants throughout the course. Sri Sri Sri 
Rangapriya Swamiji in his first lecture impressed upon the audience of 
knowing ones own self before venturing into the field of Vedanta.
	Smt. Rama Srinivasan  dealing  with  the topics  matter and 
conscious principles briefly described the theory of evolution according 
to Vedanta and said every individual soul is not only of the nature of 
consciousness but also possesses consciousness as its attribute.  The 
individual soul should strive hard to overcome restrictions caused by 
this material body and attain its natural state she said.
	Dr. N.S.Anantha Rangachar speaking on the Eruvaratattva tattva - 
the controller of matter and soul said that this supreme self is devoid 
of all inauspicious  qualities  and a repository of all auspicious 
qualities  and the individual soul should surrender unto him for his 
emancipation.
	Dr. P.B.Vidyarthi, (philosopher) of Ranchi explained the purpose 
of life and said physical pursuits and spiritual pursuits are not opposed 
to each other; On the other hand they go hand in hand.
	Professor M.A. Lakshmithathachar in  his lecture vividly brought 
out that ones own enjoyment derived by offering services to the Lord may 
also become an obstacle in offering such services.  While offering such 
services to the Lord absolute selflessness is a must he said.
	Dr. S.M.S.Chari and Prof. Bhuvarahacharya Swamiji spoke about the 
fundamental Vedantic texts  in  Sanskrit  and Tamil respectively and 
explained concept of Ubhayavedanta.
	Vidvan N.Viraraghavacharya from Chennai in his lecture on the 
final emancipation said that offering services with the one and the only 
goal of pleasing the Lord, Parartha Kainkarya is the summum bonum of 
Vedanta. He quoted ample instances to show how Alwars and Acharyas had 
brought into practice all the Vedantic teachings in their day to day life.
	Vidvan M.A.Alwar spoke on Karma, free will and destiny, and 
Varnasrama Dharma. 
		On 29.10.1997 H.H. Harshananda Swamiji presided over the 
Valedictory function while blessing the participants he stressed the need 
of such courses to rejuvenate the society and said that many of the 
vedantic messages can easily be incorporated in our day to day life.   
Prof. K.T. Pandurangi in his valedictory address lauded the efforts of 
the Director in arranging such useful courses.
Workshop on Manuscriptology & Paleography
	A workshop was organised jointly by Indira Gandhi National Centre 
for Arts and Oriental Research Institute, Mysore University Campus. The  
Director  of  the  Academy, Prof. M.A. Lakshmithathachar  was  invited as 
a resource person.  In his lecture cum demonstration he mentioned how 
Sanskrit could play a vital role in the field of computer science.  For 
instance, the compression techniques found in the soutra works, the 
operating system used in the meemamsa system, sangatis explained in the 
purva and the uttara meemamsa systems could be of much use to the 
computer scientists.  Similarly computers could also render invaluable 
service in the field of Sanskrit as it could show the practical 
application  of  the grammatical rules without any flaw.  In the usage 
of  words in a sentence, semantic analysis etc.  the application of the 
rules of Paninian grammar, the rules of semantic analysis could be done 
more efficiently  by  the computer than by the  learned  pundits he said. 
Later he gave a detailed  account of  the Sabdabodha Project undertaken  
by  the Academy, which was followed by the demo of various software, 
developed- under this project.  Many of the scholars in  the  audience  
expressed their eagerness to undergo training in the field of Sanskrit 
and computers after listening to the lecture.  
	Sri S.Narayana and Sri S.Krishnan, Research Scholars of the 
Academy  attended  the work-shop from 27.11.97 to 17.12.97. The workshop 
proved to be very useful as the scholars working  in  various  fields of  
Sanskrit  were introduced to ancient  scripts like Sarada, Grantha, etc. 
Participants in the workshop also visited the Academy  and acquainted 
themselves with the activities of the Academy.
Seminar on The Vedic base of Tantra Sastras
	Vidvan Sri S.Narasaraja Bhattar, scholar of the Academy 
participated in the seminar on The Vedic base of  Tantra Sastras  between 
27.11.97 29.11.97, conducted jointly by Maharshi Sandipani Rashtriya Veda 
Vidya Pratishthan, ujjain  and Akhila  Bharatiya Sanskrit  Parishat  at 
Lucknow.  He presented his paper on The validity of  Pancharatra Agamas
Demo at Kannada Ganaka Parishat, Mysore
	Sri R.Sudhakar, Computer Programmer, ASR, attended the inaugural 
function of Kannada Ganaka Parishat at Mysore, on 19.10.1997 and 
presented a demo of latest software developed by  ASR  especially the 
Kannada software for generation  and  identification of the nominal and 
verbal forms in Kannada.
Guest Lectures
	At the invitation of the Academy Dr. Kapil Kapoor, Dean, School 
of languages, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi, delivered lectures on 
the Structure of  Astadyayi,  the  Paninian  grammar.  He explained about 
the processing system  of  the Paninian grammar to derive a verbal  form 
from its root. Speaking on what Sanskrit grammar can do for computers he 
said as the computational linguists are in need of a particular  kind  
of  grammar, which must be formal, algorithmic, explicit, rule-bound and 
exhaustive, it is only the Paninian grammar which comes to this 
expectations. Later going through the softwares developed  by  the  
Academy he expressed  his  willingness to associate himself with  the  
activities of  the  Academy  in  whatever  manner possible.
Directors Programmes
	a)	A seminar Ramanuja and Melkote was organised under the 
auspices of Yadugiri Yatiraja Mutt at Chennai in connection with the 80th 
year celebrations of H.H Yadugiri Yatiraja Jeeyar swamiji.  Speaking on 
the subject Prof. M.A.Lakshmithathachar said there is an inseparable 
connection between Sri Ramanuja and Melkote.  Without Sri Ramanuja 
Melkote would have ceased to be a Jnanamantapa, the abode of knowledge.  
Sri Ramanuja was responsible for the renovation of Melkote Temple and 
organising the worship of Lord Tirunarayana in accordance with 
Eruvarasamhita.  Considering the role played by Melkote in reviving 
Divyaprabandha tradition and also the feeling of Nammalwar towards Lord 
Tirunarayana Sri Ramanujacharya dedicated the decade Orunayakamai to Lord 
Tirunarayana at Melkote.  Sri Ramanuja lived for 12 years in Melkote and 
propagated his philosophy,  Visistadvaita  after vanquishing  all  his 
opponents in scholarly debates.  At this place he prayed to Lord 
Tirunarayana to restore Srirangam to its original glory as the centre of 
Srivaisnavism.  For these reasons Melkote is also called the place of 
victory of Sri Ramanuja or Samyami Sarvabhauma Vijayasthana by Vedantadesika.
	b) Refresher Course
	Department of  Sanskrit Studies in  Kuvempu University, Shimoga 
organised a UGC sponsored Refresher Course  in Sanskrit for  Sanskrit  
lecturers from 8th to 31st October 1997.  Prof. Lakshmithathachar 
inaugurated the course at Sahyadri College campus, Shimoga. In his 
speech, he urged the participants to infuse self confidence in learners 
of Sanskrit and tell them that they should be proud to learn Sanskrit, a 
storehouse of  knowledge.  Most of the times Sanskrit pundits are very 
much depressed because they  dont  have social recognition like other 
professionals.  There is no reason for this  inferiority complex, as 
Sanskrit has a world of know-ledge in it and it can contribute to all the 
fields of studies.
	c) Gita Jayanti  Samiti of Chikkaballapur organised Gita Jayanti 
for a period of one month in connection with their golden jubilee 
celebrations. Prof. M.A.Lakshmithathachar was invited to deliver a 
lecture on the Message of Bhagavadgita, on 18.12.1997. In his lecture he 
brought out the significance of the first and the last chapters of 
Bhagavadgita and said everyone should follow Arjuna and surrender oneself 
unto the Lord. When there is confusion with regard to right and wrong, 
Lord Krishna the charioteer of Arjuna will also be the charioteer of each 
and every soul and lead him in the proper direction. Those who neglect 
the inner voice of the Lord will be doomed to destruction. Once the 
individual soul accepts Him as his charioteer he should stop backseat 
driving.
Dignitaries visit
	Prof. K.T.Pandurangi, Kulapati, Poorna Prajna Vidyapeeta & Vice 
President, Dvaita Vedanta Research Foundation, Bangalore, and Sri 
Narasimha Rau, former Chief Secretary, Government  of  Karnataka  and the 
present Chairman of the foundation visited the Academy on 11.12.1997.  
Going through the Academys activities and its output they lauded the 
efforts of the founders of the institution who strived hard in creating 
the institution.  Prof. K.T.Pandurangi said that he could feel that 
Sanskrit is still alive here, but not the same when he visited other 
Sanskrit institutions. It was the opinion of the visiting dignitaries 
that both the Academy and the Dvaita Vedanta Research Foundation must 
interact more and more towards achieving certain common aims and goals 
and thereby rejunevating the cultural heritage of our country.
c) Nupura - Navaba Nandini
	Nupura, an organisation specialising in dance ballets on various 
themes like Srikrishna Parijata, Deva Kannika and so on, organised Navaba 
Nandini, a dance drama based on the theme of Bibi   Nachiyar, a muslim  
princess falling  in  divine love with Selvapillai, the procession deity 
of Melkote, on 27.12.97.  The performance was remarkable for its 
depiction of sarasa, viraha and other rasas connected with the theme.  
Prof. Lakshmithathachar who was invited as the Chief Guest of the 
function, said that the story is an allegory of the individual soul 
yearing for the union with the Lord.  He suggested Nupura to choreograph 
a dance ballet on the life of Ramanuja based on Ramanuja Asupadi, a 
composition written in the style of Gita Govinda.
	d) Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan (RSS), New Delhi  nominated  Prof. 
Lakshmithathachar as an expert member of  a committee constructed for the 
purpose of automation of several RSS centres.  Automating the RSS 
Centres, Examinations, Academic activities etc. were discussed in the 
meeting held on 10.11.97.
	Academy thanks the following individuals for their kind gesture.
*	Sri Vilas M.Vaidya, New York 	$100
*	Mrs. Vijaya Pandit, USA	10,000-00
*	Sri S.Lokanathan, Satyamangalam	5,000-00
*	Sri M.S.Chaktravarthi, Bangalore	2,001-00
*	Sri C.S.Rangaswamy, Bangalore	1,000-00
*	Smt. Alamela Venkataraman,
	Bangalore 	501-00
*	Sri C.S.Venugopal, Bangalore	500-00
*	Others	605-00
Local programmes Tiruppavai Upanyasams
	As a part of Alwar Divya Prabandham Project, T.T. Devasthanams, 
Tirupati organised a month long Tiruppavai discourse in Andavan Ashramam, 
Melkote. In  the course of his lecture Prof. Lakshmithathachar said that 
the message of Tiruppavai which is nothing but the essence of  all vedas 
and the upanisads must be presented  in  a  way  to  facilitate the 
adoption of the same by everybody  irrespective  of  caste and creed.
Hayagrivaradhana 
	As in the previous years, this year also the worship of Lord 
Hayagreva, presiding deity  of learning, was performed on  6.10.97 in the 
premises of the Academy.  Staff and citizens of Melkote participated and 
received the blessings of Lord Hayagreva.
Tulasi P?ja	
	On the day of Uthana Dvadasi (12.11.97) the staff of ASR 
organised Tulasi P?ja at the Academy campus.
Book Exhibition 
	Janapada Seva Trust, Melkote organised its annual  book  
exhibition called Bharati from 21-11-97 to 24.11.97.  Prof. 
Lakshmithathachar inagurated the exhibition.  He appreciated the efforts 
of Sri Surendra Koulagi, Secretary of the Trust in inculcating reading 
habit among the citizens of Melkote, particularly children.  He said that 
knowledge is available at the doorsteps of every reader due to the advent 
of modern printing technology.  But utilisation of this opportunity lies 
with the readers.  Vidvan Umakantha Bhatta, Pundit, Sanskrit College, 
Melkote who spoke on the occasion described how, in ancient times, books 
were revered. Referring to the importance of books he said Acharya 
Ramanuja who went all the way to Kashmir to refer to Bodhayana Vritti 
grantha to write his great commentary on Brahmasutras viz. Sribhasya.
	Vedic learning for the modern age - Visistadvaita vedanta goes 
Hitech computers in operation to spread the message of the Vedanta.  A 
library having collection of books not available any where else in India 
and a faculty carrying on the work of Ramanuja in a manner he would have 
blessed and admired.  Only  Prof.  M.A Lakshmithathachar can gift this 
type of a project to the world of Hindu philosophy.
	May his tribe increase.
			T.C.A. Ramanujam
Former Chief Commissioner 
of  Income Tax,  Chennai.
	A  Great  service  to  preserve the Sanskrit language. All 
Indians are proud of Prof. Lakshmithathachar and the Academy.  We pray 
for all success for this esteemed 
institution.						       K. Jyoti Kumaran
Hon. Secretary
Indian Hockey Federation 
Annanagar (E), Chennai.
	A massive effort to revive our ancient language and culture.  It 
is indeed awe inspiring. Calls for substancial support from the urban elite.
N.Sivaraman
Centre Manager, IIT Study circle,
15th Main Road, RMV Extension,
Bangalore.
	My friends and I visited the Academy today.  My present visit was 
after about two decades after my previous one.  I was delighted to see 
the progress made during this period under the guidance and leadership of 
Sri Lakshmithathachar.
	The garden reminds one of the ancient ashramas.  The Academy 
itself has the latest equipment and has been rendering excellent service 
to the cause of Philosophy and Vedanta.  I wish the Academy a bright 
future.						                      
N.Narasimha Rau
Former Chief Secretary, Goa & 
Chairman, Dvaita vedanta Study 
and Research  Foundation, Bangalore.
	Thank you for your gracious hospitality.  I am extremely 
impressed with the wonderful resources and the great spirit of 
scholarship and good will that I find here.  Best 
wishes.		                                                   Leslie Orr
	Associate Professor
Department of Religion Concordia 
University Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
	I am both deeply moved and deeply honored to have been here and 
to have seen this place, the garden, the texts, the good people here.  
Thank you for your generous hospitality.
				               Steven P.Hopkins
				Assistant Professor
	Department to Religion
Swarthmore College Swarthmore, PA 1908.
Additions to the Library
	During the last quarter 748 valuable books were added to the 
library.  Out of which 20 books were purchased and the remaining 728 
books were received as donations from the well wishers.
	Some important titles are listed below;
	1. Srivaisnava Samhita Vol.I-III (Eng) by Krishnapremi Maharaj, 
1992-94, Akhila Bharata Sadhu Sangha, Bombay
	2. Jaina Dharma by Rajendramuni Shastri (Hin), University 
Publication, New Delhi, 1996, Rs.600/-
	3. Sugama Hindi Jnanesvari by Santa Jnanesvar, Sahitya Academy, 
New Delhi, 1996, Rs.250/-
	4. Samaveda Samhita: Text with  English  Translation by Griffith 
RTH, Parimal Publication, Delhi, 1996, Rs.450/-
	5. Vaidikatva  in  Indian  Philosophy and Religion (Eng) by 
Mudgal SG, Aarsh Shodha Samsthan, Gandhinagar, 1996, Rs.90/-
	6. Hamare Purvaj (Hin) by Harith DP, Harith Sahitya Prakashana, 
New Delhi, 1997, Rs.225/-
	7. Advaitabodhaviveka (Skt) by Digambara Mahapathra, MVVV 
Vidyapeetha, Gaziabad, 1992, Rs.25/-
	8. Post Independence Sanskrit Epics (Eng) by Ranganath S, Eastern 
Book Linkers, Delhi, 1996, Rs.300/-
	9. Srimad Visnu Bhakti Kalpa Lata (Hin) Padmashree KB, Pitambar 
Publication, New Delhi, 1995, Rs.46/-
	10. Art  &  Science of Sadhana : Meditation (Eng) by Virajeswara 
Swami, Cave Temple, Bangalore, 1996, Rs.3/-
	11. Kavya Kiranavali (Skt) by R.K.Mishra, Meerut, 1994, Rs.80/-
	12. Keeta Bh?ng?rcikam (Hin), by Triveni Prasad T, Triveni Prasad 
Tripathi, Jounpur, 1996, Rs. 50/-
	13. Rgvedadasagrantha (Rgveda Samhita) (Skt) by Vinayakasharma, 
Veda Patashala, Punyapatnam 411004, 1986, Rs.200/-
	14. The Scientific Approach of Shankara Vedanta by Gangolli D.B, 
Adhyatma Prakashana Karyalaya, Holenarasipur, 1997, Rs.30/-
	15. Tatvadepa, ASR, Journal, Jan-June-1994 V (1) 94 Ed. by K.S. 
Narayanachar, ASR, Melkote, 1997/- Rs.40/-
	16. Ravana Bhasyam (Hin), edited by Sudhir Kumar Gupta, Bharati 
Mandir, Jaipur, 1967, Rs.15/-
	17. A Constructive Survey of Upanisadic Philosophy by Ranade, 
Bharateeya Vidyabhavan, Bombay, 1968, Rs.20/-
	18.  Bharateeya  Samskrita  Kosha, (Marathi), edited by 
Mahadevashastri Joshi.
* * * *
