Indo-Aryan invasion
Lars Martin Fosse wrote:
I agree, but then there is an even more conspicious difference between de Roman and the
Sarasvati case. In the Roman world, despite centuries of invasions and a final collapse
Latin survived and developed further after the collapse into the Romanic languages. The
languages of the invaders did participate to a certain extent in the formation of the
Romanic languages, but - some peripheral areas excepted - failed to get a definitive
foothold in the ares formerly occupied by the Romans (except for Arabic and Turkish later
on). In the Sarasvati case, if one accepts the view that Dravidian was the language
spoken in North-Western India at that time, how to explain the fact that this language
has been wiped out from that area by intruders, who certainly could have formed only a
minority in a culturally superior environment? How to explain the absence of Dravidian
elements in the oldest forms of Indo-Aryan (the few such elements proposed are all
heavily disputed). Finally, how is it possible that there is no trace of a Dravidian
substratum in placenames and rivernames in most of North-Western India and even in most
of Nortern India as a whole. The Dravidian hypothesis has to be abandoned. Of course, in
the course of time Indo-Aryan became very much structurally influenced by Dravidian while
Dravidian became very much Aryanised lexically, but these are later developments.
You are right, except for the fact that there are Gypsies among the Iranians too and that
there are a number of Indian loan-words in Persian. However, I do not understand why you
make this remark. The early migration route of Indians towards the west must have
followed the Oxus bassin (formerly leading to the Caspian Sea), an area which came only
relatively late under Iranian controll.
I must confess that I haven't read the work of Cavalli-Sforza, but I have the impression
that he is trying to fit his genetic data into tradional theories. As far as I know there
is no substantial genetical difference between the population of the Indus-Sarasvati
culture and the present population of that area.
Here Cavalli-Sforza implicitly admits the shortcomings of his research saying "they were
Caucasoid and most probably spoke proto-Dravidian languages". Why couldn't they "most
probably" have spoken Indo-Iranian or proto-Indo-Aryan ? He does not say that there
genetic constitution closely resembles that of the present day Dravidians. He only has
"an indirect indication" which is not based on genetic evidence but on linguistic and
historical assumptions which form part of the traditional Indo-Aryan inavasion model. In
fact he is turning in circles.
As is the case with so many factors, the genetic shift can easily be interpreted here as
going the opposite way: from east to west. The time and areas indicated are more or less
the period and areas of the westward movement of Indo-Aryan peoples, who by then had
mastered the skills of horse-riding.
Again, no genetic argument at all, but a purely traditionalist explanation, which can be
easily reversed.
Erik Seldeslachts
Universiteit Gent
Gent  Belgium
