CSX fonts
Hello,
I am trying to put together a suite of programs with which to write my
doctoral thesis on Vedic linguistics.
My computer is a Pentium II 233, and it has both Windows 95 (Hebrew version)
and RedHat Linux 5.0.
What I need to do is to use the Harvard electronic RigVeda, and the
metrically restored version, which is in a kind of CSX coding, as well as a
few other e-texts. I need to take examples from these and put them in a
database, and thence into TeX, probably with Itrans, to do the actual
writing at some time in the future.
My problem is that I can't seem to find a font that works in all the
programs I am trying to use, for whatever reason.
I have tried converting all the texts to Titus coding under W95. This
worked, up to a point. I could load the texts into a text editor, and export
examples to the database. However on my system, for whatever reason, any
paragraph which contains characters above ascii 224 won't print. In any case
TeX etc. need the CSX coding, so I think this is probably not an option.
Now, I have an unusual problem caused by the Hebrew Windows, in that some of
the high characters appear as Hebrew in most programs. The exception to this
are some simple text editors, but this probably means that I will have to
work under Linux, which is my personal preference anyway.
Under Linux, The Washington Indic fonts do not display the letter e-acute or
a-acute, either in their Truetype or Type 1 varieties. I have checked using
Character Map and its Linux equivalent (xfd). Xfd shows these letters to be
actually missing, while character map under W95 shows them to be there. This
is very bizarre, as the Truetype font is exactly the same file under both
operating systems.
What I would really like to do is use xemacs, with a hypertext extension
called Hyperbole, and TeX. This will work very well if I can only get those
two letters to display in the Washington font.
Does anyone have any idea what is going on?
Sorry for the length of this message, and thank you all very much,
Daniel Baum,
The Department of Linguistics,
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem,
Israel.
