1. Horse and 2. Dice in India
Sn. Subrahmania wrote:
At 11:26 23.03.98 -0600, you wrote:
First a few general remarks on the horse sacrifice (from Mallory, In Search
of the Indo-Europeans, p. 135ff):
"The major ritual enactment of a horse-centered myth is supported by
evidence from ancient India and Rome, and, more distantly, medieval Ireland.
....
The ashvamedha bears comparison with the major Roman horse sacrifice which
was known as the October Equus. Following a horse race on the ides of
October, the right-sided horse of the team was dispatched by a spear and
then dismembered, again in such a fashion as to indicate its "functional"
division into the three estates. ....
A detailed analysis of this and other material has led Jaan Puhvel to
propose a Proto-Indo-European myth and ritual which involved the mating of a
figure from the royal class with a horse from which ultimately sprung the
famous equine divine twins. He offers some additional linguistic support for
such a ritual in the very name of the Indic ceremony, the ashvamedha. This
derives from the Proto-Indo-European *ek'wo-meydho 'horse-drunk', attesting
a ritual which included both a horse and drunkenness. This is quite
comparable to the personal name Epomeduos which is found in ancient Gaul and
appears to derive from *ekwo-medu 'horse-mead'. .... Hence, both the Indic
and Celtic worlds still preserve the ancient Proto-Indo-European name of a
horse-centered ceremony involving intoxication.
   The horse ritual warrants one more comment since it illustrates all too
well how a comparison of myths may lead us along paths that appear to be
contradicted by archaeological evidence. Both the ashvamedha and the October
Equus clearly concern the sacrifice of a draught horse and in a striking
instance of parallelism, both require that the horse in question excels on
the right side of the chariot ... Clearly, this suggests that the horse is
selected from a paired chariot team. But archaeological evidence indicates
that the horse was not likely to have been employed in paired draught until
the invention of the spoked wheel and chariot, which is normally dated after
about 2500 BC and, consequently, some time after we would have assumed the
disintegration of the Proto-Indo-European community. Indeed, the entire
concept of horse-twins, totally points to paired draught, while the
archaeological evidence suggests that this should not be so at the
time-depth we normally assign to Proto-Indo-European."
So much for data. Vidyanath Rao wrote:
Lars Martin Fosse <lmfosse at ONLINE.NO> wrote:
