Horse
On Sun, 22 Mar 1998, George Thompson wrote:
Not 'save' exactly, but separate the arguments that are more compelling
from those that seem to me to be less so.  My role, in this exchange, is
to introduce perspectives from the Indigenous Aryan school that might help
us reexamine our assumptions and fine-tune our understanding of things.
Quite.  I have noted that, to my knowledge, there have been some findings
such as Pirac, Stacul, Hastinapur and one or two other places (including,
as has been noted, down South) in the, say, 1500-500 BCE period (but I
also noted that I need to get exact details from Meadows), and no evidence
of the chariot during this period (again, if anyone can correct this,
please do so).  I am suggesting that there may be a problem with these
types of argumenta ab silentio in the archaeological record.
Yes.  If the above facts are correct, and if the Aryans were very much
in the subcontinent during this period (as most scholars hold), then their
presence there is not really demonstrated by *significant* evidence of
horse, and not by any evidence of chariot at all.  If this is the case,
how can their presence even earlier be denied on *these*
particular grounds (especially since archaeological findings are obviously
going to proportionately lessen the further we go back in time).  This is
my main point.
Well, I am questioning how true this is of the post-IVC culture as
well--although, granted, the findings that have been reported
in this period have met with Meadow's approval unlike the findings claimed
for the IVC (some of which still remain a possibility btw).   I would add
to your comments above, that *three* entities -- horse, Aryan and chariot
evidence of the chariot does not occur till the Mauryan period if we are
to argue that the chariot, too, must go hand in hand with the Aryans along
with the horse?  In the meantime, I will try and contact Meadows about the
exact nature and quantity of the horse evidence in this 1500 -- 500 BCE
period to see how much explaining the hand in hand connection has to
account for in this regard as well.
Hope that is clearer.  Best, Edwin
