An appeal to Indologists (Was Re: Indo-Aryan invasion)
Dear Robert, that is what I also feel,
and agree with Palaniappan.
On Thu, 5 Mar 1998, Robert J. Zydenbos wrote:
  What I feel here in India, where I live near about 2 years, that
 people here are not interested in their own cultural heritage and
 especially classical ancient history, arts, languages and folklor.
 I mean it still exists in some remote village areas and carried on
 basically by
 old aged layer of population.But drastically decreasing and washing out
 from contemporary Indian life. Soon we will hear about Indian culture
 only from pulpits some where in Oxford or Harvard.
 Now here everybody is interested only in MBA and computers.And how to go
 abroad to earn crazy money.When I approach people and say I want to learn
 and discuss your culture and languges, get in answer forget it, better
 you learn computers and do business.
 It is exhausting.Now It is a dream to see High Culture-in Classical
meaning, we find just opposite.
Because so many Indians came to the West with purpose to dive in and
consume Western Pop values, and doing it very successfuly with more eagerness
than native Westerners. It appears they become more West-rooted than natives.
And also richer.
Although some Westerners traditionally are still and inspite of it remaining
interested in India Study.
I am student of Classical Indology and in a big difficulty, because
to find out even now and even in INDIA bonafide aware PROFESSORS is seems
to be impossible.
You may say about Classical Indic studies same.
There is not a single Scholarship dedicated to the field.
Japanese Society is very traditional itself, that is why they are interested
to study traditions of other countries, especially India-oldest still
living traditional Society.
 In our nowdays popculture-read false valueless artificial culture
world studies of High Real Culture Traditions are looking like eccentricity
or  dullness. Example: recent appearance of Spicy Girls in Khajuraho
Temples in Madhya Pradesh denotes TOTAL devaluation, rather devastation
of tradition.
Have to agree:
we live in anti-intellectual, anti-cultural therefore anti-human world.
Sincerely
Viktor V. Sukliyan
Chandigarh.
