From Palaniappa at AOL.COM  Sat Mar 21 18:22:29 1998
From: Palaniappa at AOL.COM (Palaniappa)
Date: Sat, 21 Mar 98 13:22:29 -0500
Subject: Vivekananda &c.
Message-ID: <161227036953.23782.13636844486195073984.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

In a message dated 98-03-19 12:27:27 EST, zydenbos at BLR.VSNL.NET.IN writes:

<< V. is a figurehead for
 urbanised, Anglicised, well-to-do Indians who are partly alienated from
 traditional Hinduism. In rural India, as per my own observations, he is
 never more than a picture on a wall, 'the man through whom Hinduism
 conquered the world' and a protagonist in myths without substance, a
 writer the bulk of whose writings are read by none. (Sorry if this
 sounds crude or 'unscholarly', but I've already reached my third
 screenful.) Hardly anybody, besides the residents of Ramakrishna Maths
 and Hindutva ideologues, has any idea of what he stood for. >>

I agree with Robert Zydenbos on Vivekananda in general, but I would like to
add a note on zankara as well. My personal impression based on living in
Tamilnadu is that it is the upper castes (mainly Brahmins and Vellalas) who
have been admirers and knowledgeable about V. The percentage of these
followers in the general population is very very small. Even though,
Vivekanandar's biography "aRivukkan2alE aruTpun2alE" might have appeared in
Kalki, a Tamil magazine, the circulation of that one-time orthodox magazine
was so unrepresentative of the general population, that V.'s relevance for the
general population is insignificant. The Ramakrishna mission schools and
colleges are the only avenues of possible relevance for V.'s views w.r.t the
wider population. Even here, if the comments of my IIT friends who were
graduates of Vivekananda College in Madras (this was more than 20 years ago)
were correct, the distribution of students by caste was weighted towards upper
castes. (Of course, the government-mandated reservation of seats might have
resulted in some representation of other castes as well.) I think V. filled a
market need for self-assurance among newly urbanized elites moving from
mofussil areas into emerging urban areas.

Zydenbos had said, "(2) To compare V. to ;Sa:nkara looks rather absurd
(something like comparing Jerry Falwell to John Calvin)." For most of the
Tamil population, V as well as Zankara are equally irrelevant. As for Adi
zankara's intellectual genius, there is a segment of non-brahmin intelligensia
(here many atheistic as well as theistic people are included) who find his
views on zUdras abhorrent and abominable.

Commenting on Brahmasutra (1.3.38)  that zUdras are prohibited from acquiring
spiritual knowledge, zankara says, "The zUdras are not qualified for that
reason also that smRti prohibits their hearing the Veda, their studying the
Veda, and their understanding and performing Vedic matters. The prohibition of
hearing the Veda is conveyed by the following passages: 'The ears of him who
hears the Veda are to be filled with (molten) lead and lac,' and 'For a zUdra
is (like) a cemetery, therefore (the Veda) is not to be read in the vicinity
