zrauta technology
Dear list members
Please let me give you a quick overview of my findings on the subject.  I find
that the vedic civilization made a number of discoveries regarding the thought
process.  Following is the summary of what I found till now.  Primarily the
method I used to arrive at these conclusions is prANAyAmA.  These findings can
be confirmed by anyone who has been trained in yoga/prANAyAmA techniques.
Others may criticise from linguistic/zrauta angle.
(The findings are subject to change as research progresses.  I suggest further
discussion of this subject be taken offline and only end results be presented
to the list members.)
Abstract:
The spine represents what is Unknown.  The nervous endings in the region of
mouth, neck etc represents what is known.  The brain represents what is
desirable.  These three fields interact with each other and often try to take
control of each other generating the thought process.
When the known is controlled by the unknown it is called bRhaspati,  this
function resides in the mouth.  When the desirable is controlled by the
unknown it is called indra, this function is seated in the hindbrain.  When
the known is controlled by the desirable it is called maruts, maruts are
located in the forehead (fronto temporal lobes?). The first perception of the
unknown is viSNu, which resides in the feet. And the last perception of the
known is rudra which resides at the ower end of spine.  soma is to be
interpreted as the secretions of brain-like tissue found in the gut.  A number
of other vedic symbols are at various stages of inquiry.
The idea of control (mentioned above) is itself a fallacy because it assumes
action at a distance.  Removing this fallacy involves substitution by a
mathematical model using neuro-fuzzy algorithms for which I am not prepared
yet.
The findings match descriptions of various bits and pieces of zrauta theories
such as consecration yajJa or bartering of cow for soma etc in soma-yAga; but
I am nowhere near interpreting a regular brAhmaNa text.
Any list members who know/practice any form of prANAyAmA and who are
interested in this new field of inquiry may please write to me.  I will
provide all necessary hints to start their own research.
Regards
Bhadraiah Mallampalli
