Bibliographer post (Bibliography of Asian Studies)
ASSOCIATE EDITOR FOR SOUTH ASIA (PART-TIME)
ASSOCIATION FOR ASIAN STUDIES, INC.
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ASIAN STUDIES
The Association for Asian Studies, Inc. seeks an energetic bibliographer,
librarian and/or scholar to compile, input, and edit bibliographical entries for
Western-language journal articles, chapters in edited volumes, and
conference proceedings, etc. in all academic disciplines and subject areas
concerning South Asia (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the
Maldives,
Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka) for inclusion in the Bibliography of Asian
Studies (BAS).
Qualifications:  The successful applicant will be expected to have (a) a
subject knowledge or background in one or more aspects of South Asian
studies (in the humanities or the social sciences strongly preferred), (b) an
awareness of the elements of bibliographical work or cataloging, (c) ready
access to one or more research libraries in the United States with
up-to-date holdings of English-language periodicals published in India and
elsewhere in South Asia as well as current imprints from western Europe
and
North America that deal with South Asia, (d) familiarity with basic computer
applications, including the ability to enter bibliographical data into an
electronic database, (e) the ability to work efficiently and effectively on
both an independent basis and with the editor of the BAS.  Some prior
bibliographical and/or library-related experience is desirable.  Familiarity
with Macintosh is preferred but not required.  This is a half-time (20
hours/week) position.  Working hours are flexible.
Salary:  Competitive.
Starting Date:  As soon as possible.  The search will continue until the
position is filled.  Applications will be considered without regard to gender,
race, color, creed, age, national or ethnic origin, or disability.
Letter of application including a resume and three or more references
should be sent directly to:
Dr. Anna Leon Shulman
Editor, Bibliography of Asian Studies
9225 Limestone Place
College Park, Maryland 20740-3943
E-mail: aslshulman at aol.com
