arma-, armaka 'ruined site'
Erik Seldeslachts wrote:
        Why "geological" ? I can understand why the Aryans are excluded by
you: "that's the other theory". But why not God's wrath, or anything else ?
        Almost all rivers of plains change their course along their history
without destroying civilizations! To my knowledge, countries such
Bangla-Desh suffer each year major geological disasters but survive.
        Strong climatic changes occur in Mesopotamia but it seems that
Assyrians, Persians, Greeks, Romans and Arabians play a greater role in the
cultural changes of the country ...
        Like England, France, Italia, China, &c., India was invaded many
times. Just judging by this list, the last invader succeeded to impose his
language, at least in the elite. But it would be difficult to show the
archeological remains of the destructions caused by him. And not because he
was peaceful!
        I understand well why a theory showing the Indus Valley
civilization (eventually "Dravidian") destroyed by invaders (eventually
"Aryan") don't is today a "politically correct" one. But the arguments
against it are poor (most of them "in absentia") and highly suspect to be
justified by non-historical motives.
        We have some simple facts:
        - Indus Valley civilization disappears, just leaving ruins.
        - subsequent dwellers of the country speak a language strongly
related to a great lot of languages spoken out of this country.
        - the same dwellers have ancient text talking about destruction of
cities.
        Against:
        - We've never found a "Dravidian" corpse with an "Aryan" spade in
the breast.
        - We've never found prooves of incendy in the ruins.
        - The Dravidian tradition don't knows stories about his own
destruction.
        - The Aryans living today in India are very peaceful.
        My choice is easy. I recall that I don't prefer Hindi-speakers to
Tamil-speakers, nor the contrary.
        I respect both,
Dominique
PS without any link: the TAB and CR characters need just 1 byte and give
texts easier to read.
Dominique THILLAUD
Universite' de Nice Sophia-Antipolis, France
