     is dated in 15th century. From other citations also,
     tamil kantapuraaNam is dated in 12th century.
     Many of Vaiyapuri Pillai's dates have been pushed back
     by centuries, by his own students, M. Arunachalam
     and M. Shanmugam Pillai (Tiru. Pillai, that great editor
     passed away just a few months ago). Mr. Vaiyapuri's
     dates in general, give the latest possible dates.
     Regarding Sri Vidya and some other stuff going from Tamil,
     let me tell a recent happening. After seeing Tecikar's
     aadavallaan, Sivaramamurti applied it to Sanskrit and
     wrote his Nataraja book. The aananda taaNdava naTaraaja
     with a round praba of fames in all the Western museums
     come from a single place, namely Tamil Nadu.
     Sivaramamurti, the great Sanskritist's
     book gives some naTaraajas all over India. They are just
     starting to dance, their legs slightly in motion - the chatura
     taaNDava or something like that. The Pala bronze
     of Siva on a nandi is beautiful. Compare the range,
     time depth of Chola masterpieces on naTaraaja.
*I return once more to the evidence for the date of
*the Tirumantiram.  Secondary literature is only as authoritative as
*the evidence it cites, and the evidence that you have presented so far
*consists in two references to the name (Maa-)Muular/Muulan.  Does this
*seem to you to be conclusive?
    I agree 100%. More data is needed to fix the time of
    tirumuular. I have not seen the bulky volume of commentary
    from tamil pundits from Dharmapuram (1960s).
    In the foreword of that series, all the evidence
    will be dealt with.
    May be K. VellaivaaraaNaar's book on the history
    of the saiva canon. There is a heavy volume from
    TiruvaavaDuthurai mutt on Tirumantiram conference
    proceedings (1941?) I have to see all this in TN
    to really know the depths of the problems of
    dating of tirumuular.
    Can anyone tell me the earliest occurences of
    gaja samhAra mUrti in sanskrit, please?
    Regards,
    N. Ganesan
You may remember the second of the criteria I advanced for accepting
that a Siddhaantatantra really be early:
Perhaps what I mean by this is clearest from examples.  An unspecified
reference to the Skandapuraa.na might be to one of a wide range of
texts (see the article to which I have referred).  A reference to the
Vi.s.nusa.mhitaa might be to the Paa~ncaraatra sa.mhitaa of that name,
or to the treatise on Dharma"saastra.  A reference to an Ii"saana"siva
might be to any one of hundreds of "Saivaacaaryas who received that
diik.saa-name.
Yours,
Dominic Goodall.
