Beluur and Belgaum
At 06:35 PM 5/1/98 PDT, you wrote:
                Whoa there! Hold your horses!
        Dear Sir,
                I am on your side. I never said that the Chalukya land
        or Karnataka were parts of Tamil land. Neither do I claim that
        the Chalukyas and the Hoysalas are of Tamil origin.
                On the contrary, it is beleived that at least
        some of the Tamil VEL chieftains migrated from North India.
                There is a poem in PuRanAnURu - a Sangam work-
        sung by Kapilar. This Kapilar was a bossom friend of the vEL PAri.
        After the demise of PAri, Kapilar takes the two daughters of
        Pari into his custody, and takes them to IrungO VEL, the Lord
        of Thuvarai in Erumai NAdu.
                IrungO VEL belongs to one of the eighteen clans/septs?
        of the VEL community. His Erumai WAdu is identified with
        Mahisha Mandalam or Mysore. Thuvarai might be a fore-runner
        of Dvara Samudram, the later namesake. Thuvarai is
        said to have existed during the time of the SAta vAhanas.
                In this poem, Kapilar addresses thus:
                "If you enquire who these girls are, they are the
        daughters of PAri, the Great Philanthropist, of adorned
        elephants, the Lord of PaRambu.
                I am their father's friend; and these are my
        (adopted)children. I am a Brahmin; a poet.
                I have brought them to you.
                The VELir were born in the sacrificial pit of
        the Northern Rishi; they ruled over the invincible
        City of Thuvarai(Dwaraka) which was protected by long,
        huge walls inforced with copper; they were of unlimited
        philanthropy. You are "the" VEL among the VELir of the
        forty-ninth generation."
                NachchinArkkiniyar, in his commentary, several
        centuries later, mentions about a legend which says that
        the VELir were brought to South India by the Sage Agastya
        from Dwaraka, which was ruled by the "Great One of the tall
        crown, who covered the (entire) land", i.e., KrishNa, the
        incarnation of VishNu.(Nilam kadandha nedu mudi aNNal).
                Since there are supposed to be eighteen septs or
        clans or branches of the VELir, it is possible they might
        have settled along the way.
                If you draw an itinary line from the Kathiawar
        Peninsula and proceed along the Western Ghats towards
        Tamil Nadu, you  will see it passes through the Chalukyan
        territory, the Thuvarai of IrungOVEL of Sangam age, the
        territory of the Hoysalas, the Tiruchi/KodumbaLur terrotory
        of the Irukku VEL of Medieval times, the territory
        of PAri and the other VeLirs of the Pandiya country,
        including the ThuvarApathi VEL of KaNNamangalam.
                Migration?
                Worth the while, if some learned scholars would
        make some research with sufficient, concrete archeological
        and inscriptional evidence.
                Sir! I don't have any territorial claims to make
        on VELpulam, the land of the Karnataka/Telengana/Maratha:-)
                By the way, sorry about the cowboy expression.
                (Otherwise might get monotonous).
        Regards
        Jayabarathi
 The only time that there may have been possible Tamil rule in
