Sarasvati (texts & arch.)
Pardon the long posting as I did not want to edit Prof.Witzels posting much
I have tried to divide it into sections so as to make it easier to read.
At 05:49 PM 5/20/98 -0400, Michael Witzel wrote:
Yes indeed...it is a old horse, but it is only recently with Mughals
excavations that it has been found that the concentration of sites is
on the Sarasvati and not on the Indus.
Your argument here is that the 7.95.2 refers to the "reminiscencing" of the
Haraxvavaiti but the later references is to the Sarasvati in India. We will
look at this later.
You have your facts wrong here: The Satluj and Yamuna are perennial and
are fed by the Himalayan glaciers. The Ghaggar, Sarasvati, Markanda, Chautang
all arise in the Sivaliks and are non-perennial. Presently none of them
reach the sea (Yashpal,84)
The concentration of sites on the Sarasvati is very clear. All three - Early,
Mature and Late - Harappan sites are on the Sarasvati. So even if we are
accept that the river had dried up by 1400BC there is very clear
evidence of a continous civilization.
The reason some of the sites are ON the ancient bed is precisely because
they were built AFTER the water had been captured away from the Sarasvati
and the river became smaller !!
A Sarasvati flowing into an ocean means a Sarasvati flowing into an ocean !
You contradict yourself completely here.  Initially you stated that 7.95.2
probably is a reminiscencing of the Haraxvaiti. But if the earlier RV3.33
refers to the smaller Sarasvati in India then how can you argue that 7.95.2
refers to the reminiscensing of the Haraxvaiti ???
Again, If 7.95.2 is a remembering of the Sarasvati(and not the Haraxvaiti)
then does it not mean that the Aryans were already in the SIVC when the
Sarasvati was bigger ???
As already shown your Internal evidence infact negates your arguments.
Considering that you date the Rgveda to between 1500-1200BC.
Dont you find it strange that the Aryans were "reminiscencing" about a
Haraxvaiti which they  had left atleast a few hundred years ago...and
then when they talk of a river going underground you say that they decided
to call a already long dead or almost dead river which goes nowhere as their
Sarasvati (and calling it the river that flows from the mountains to the sea
too!)...
when bigger rivers are around ?
Again..your facts are wrong. Please look up the following
RC Agrawala, 1984,
Aravalli, the Major source of copper for Indus and Indus related cultures
D.P.Agrwal, 1984
Metal technology of the Harappans.
Frontiers of the Indus Civilization.
You are completely ignoring the much earlier presence
of clearly Vedic  names and vocabulary in west Asia, and there is nothing
Iranian about them. More of this later, as this message is  alrady very long.
So in conclusion, I am afraid there are big holes in
both the facts and logic that you have proposed.
Regards,
Subrahmanya
