Karuna/metta sought
Dear Jan Filipsky;
My name is Jae-sung Kim.
May I give you some information about your question ?
You can check the meaning of original Paali text. I hope you have better
understanding on Brahmavihaara meditation through another translation.
On  Fri, 15 May 1998 10:45:19 +0200 $B!$ (BJan Filipsky <filipsky at SITE.CAS.CZ> wrote ;
I find following a Paali passage on practicing of Brahmavihaara
meditation.
.
 so mettaasahagatena cetasaa eka.m disa.m pharitvaa
vihaasi, tathaa dutiya.m, tathaa tatiya.m, tathaa catutthi.m; iti
uddhamadho tiriya.m sabbadhi sabbattataaya sabbaavanta.m
loka.m mettaasahagatena cetasaa vipulena mahaggatena appamaa.nena
averena avyaapajjhena pharitvaa vihaasi. karu.naasahagatena
cetasaa - pe - muditaasahagatena cetasaa upekhaasahagatena cetasaa eka.m
disa.m pharitvaa vihaasi, tathaa dutiya.m, tathaa tatiya.m, tathaa
catu.t.thi.m; iti uddhamadho tiriya.m sabbadhi sabbattataaya sabbaavanta.m
loka.m upekhaasahagatena cetasaa vipulena mahaggatena appamaa.nena
averena avyaapajjhena pharitvaa vihaasi.
<MN2(PTS ed),(Makhaadevasutta.m 83) p.76:7-17>
This passage is translated into English as below.
He abided pervading one quarter with a mind imbued with loving-kindness,
(compassion, appreciative joy, equanimity) likewise the second, likewise
the third, likewise the
fourth; so above, below, around, and everywhere, and to all as to
himself, he abided pervading the all-encompassing world with a mind
imbued with loving-kindness,(compassion, appreciative joy, equanimity)
abundant, exalted, immeasurable, without hostility and without ill will.
<The Middle Length Discourses of the Buddha : A New Translation of the
Majjhima Nikaaya>
Translated by Bhikkhu ~Naa.namoli and Bhikkhu Bodhi, Boston: Wisdom
Publication, 1995, p.693.
Meditator's mind imbued with loving-kindness pervade all world(sabbaavanta.m
loka.m)
KIM Jae-sung (Jung Won)
Department of Indian Philosophy and Buddhist Studies
University of Tokyo
Tel/Fax : +81-3-5662-6019
jungwon at l.u-tokyo.ac.jp
