(DEDR 5161) means elephant. From the inscription it is obvious that it was
treated as a compound. There is no word break between "mata" and "yAn2ai". In
effect, "y" in "matayAnai" is inter-vocalic.
There is no doubt that the word for elephant "yAn2ai" begins with yA-.
According to P. S. Subrahmanyam's "Dravidian Comparative Phonology" published
in 1983, this initial yA- can be  assumed for Proto-Dravidian (p. 388-390).
This means we have here a clear proof for y > c.
It is strange that the comparative Dravidianists have not used the data in
"Study of The Dialects in Inscriptional Tamil" by A. Velu Pillai, Publication
no. 21 of Dravidian Linguistics Association, published in 1976 six years
before the publication of P. S. Subrahmanyam's book.
Velu Pillai lists several cases where y > c. One of these is the word
cecuviccOm (p. 370).
cecuviccOm  (T.A.S. Vol. IV, p.118/119, Part II) < ceyvittom (we caused to do)
The causative form of Ta. cey (to do) is given as "ceyvi" (to cause to do)  by
P. S. Subrahmanyam in his book "Dravidian Verb Morphology" (p. 7).  Here "cey"
takes on an epenthetic vowel, "u". Along with the palatalization of the first
person plural past tense suffixes, this leads to the following process
ceyvittOm > ceyuvittom > cecuviccOm
In this case also, there can be no doubt that y > c.
Some more words with y > c are:
ucar < uyar (DEDR 646)
vacakkal < vayakkal (DEDR 5258)
vAcal < vAyil (DEDR 5352)
vicalUr < viyalUr = viyal (DEDR 5404) +Ur
P. S. Subrahmanyam notes that intervocalic *-c- can change to -d- (p.331-332).
What is interesting is the change y > c can also proceed further resulting in
y >t. For instance, we find:
utarattu (S.I.I. vol. III, p.191, no. 47, Part II) < uyarattu (of the height).
Regarding the position of L. V. Ramaswami Aiyar regarding y > c changes,
Subrahmanyam noted, " Ramaswami Aiyar (1932b) identified a number of such
cases but he argued that y is original and -s'-, -j- (Tulu) and -s- are
secondary developments. He based his argument on the fact that in Kannada and
Telugu -s- occurs in words with derivatives. He (1932b.21) says that y>s is
"ultimately due to the incorporation of a strong breath current to mark off
the medial syllable of derivatives." He seems to have been too much influenced
by the facts that (i) y is found in greater number of languages than c and
that (ii) literary Tamil y is often replaced by s'/s in the colloquial, e.g.
L. Ta. muyal > colloq. Ta. mosali 'hare'." While I do not have access to
Aiyar's paper, based on the evidence presented here, it rather looks like
Krishnamurti and Subrahmanyam are the ones in error who failed to take into
account very pertinent and relevant Tamil data. If that is done, many proto-
Dravidian reconstructions of *-c- will have to be replaced with *-y-.
Regards
S. Palaniappan
