Telugu history
Mr. D. V. Sarma write:
" This is the limit I think. Do you really believe that God prefers Tamil to
Sanskrit..."
Are you setting the limit?? Who gave you that power? God?
Mr. D. V. Sarma wrote:
"You quoted somebody to say that Sanskrit is a rough language".
There is a 13th century zrIvaiSNava commentary, very revered among
all Vaishnavaites. "muraTTu samskritam" occurs there.
A. K. Ramanujan, a legend and whose about ten letters to me I treasure,
translated "muraTTu" as "rough-sounding" in a *Princeton
university* publication, 1981.
Mr. D. V. Sarma continues to write:
"Do you know the name by which your language is known in Andhra?
It is called "aravam", a voiceless language. The word is current
in Andhra and it is in usage even before I was born"
All the people start calling their neighbours by the name of
adjascent county names. Telugu people must have called
Tamils aruvas because the country around Tirupati is
aruvaa naaDu. I have heard funny explanations/etymologies for aravam
by some telugus. "rava" is sound in sanskrit.
So, "arava" is voiceless and start telling very derogatory
remarks on Tamil or Tamils. Please stop that.
kannadigas call tamils as konga and kaongati.
For Malayalis, tamils are paaNDis.
Interesting to know that tamils do not have name for
AP and Kannada people, They are Telugus and Kannadigas
always, for us. That is, teluGkar and kannadiyar.
We do not have names. Even though originally
they were harmless, now aravam is used to put down tamils.
We tamils like to be addressed as tamils.
Didn't the term "Negro" got changed to
"Black", a Blacks' preference.
I seek mercy from Sarma and the like.
Mr. D. V. Sarma write:
"Do show some consideration for the feelings of other people
on the list".
My record for about 4.5 years in Indology can be checked
to see whether I have indulged in personal invectives.
I have given 100s of references on Dravidian/tamil/south indian
bibliographical items for which I have received innumerable
thanks, both public and private. If you want I can compile who
all thanked me.
