Horses (words, archaeology)
  Michael Witzel <witzel at FAS.HARVARD.EDU>
Interestingly, ghoTa generally replaced other Sanskrit terms for
horse.  The modern words ghora, kura, ghur, etc., in the vernaculars
are believed to have derived from ghoTa.  Wasn't ghoTa originally used
more to describe the domesticated horse?
Hmmm, this would suggest a domesticated horse, but then again the
questions on the Elamite-Dravidian relationship.
Then we have at least one alternative to the IE introduction theory.
Other possibilities are introduction by Altaic, Austro-Asiatic or
Tibeto-Burman speakers.  Or local independent domestication.
Most of the Munda languages and even Khasi use variants like gura,
kura, etc., that are almost certainly related to other North Indian
terms.  Even Tai and Austronesian have similar sounding words.
Still this would pooh-pooh the argument about horses supposedly not
showing up in IVC art.  Also, it muddies up the question of how the
domesticated Indian horse such as Equus Sivalensis came about in
India.  The latter is distinguished morphologically by large upper
premolars, pre-orbital depression and only 17 pairs of ribs.  Such
anatomical divergence only comes about through long periods of
evolution or selective interbreeding.  So one way or another we seem
stuck with the idea that there were indigenous horse breeds. The idea of
diffusion is stronger if horses were not  indigenous to India.
But this is not a universal opinion. SR Rao, whose 'decipherment' work doesn't
really impress me, has compiled much of the research on horses at
Harappan levels.
Sorry, but there seem to be too many assumptions in this passage. The
similarities you mention are vague and late.  The ancient Greek texts
mention Indian philsophers in Greece, and we know that Gypsies may
have visited Europe at an early age, so most of this evidence is
really convincing.  None of this necessarily hearkens back to
proto-IE, although the Avestan material is certainly different than
the rest.
The question is why would the "Aryans" have traditions of horses
being domesticated by Asuras or coming from the east?  Why would
domesticated horses be raised on rice?  Doesn't jibe with the
traditional idea of horses being introduced by pastoral nomadic Indo-Europeans.
Also, V. Rao raised many interesting points about the differences in
technology used in regards to Indian and other horses that contradict
the normal horse=Indo-Aryans argument.
Regards,
Paul Kekai Manansala
