Announcing CSX+
Dr. Smith writes
I am sure we have all used CSX fonts and benefited from having even a
provisional "standard", but that the "definitive" Indology character
set should necessarily be based on the present CSX is perhaps not
quite so obvious. It has had the advantage of a certain quasi official
seal of approval, and there have been enough implementations of the
CSX configuration to make it quite widespread - in the still very
limited circle of computer-literate Indologists. It MAY be that a
further refinement of the CSX allocations is the right way forward,
but there are also strong arguments AGAINST it.
Is it right, primarily, for the English-speaking scholars of the
present generation of Indologists to tie the future of Indology fonts
to what suits US very well, but not others. The CSX font has moved all
the accented characters of other European languages off their
traditional locations - which makes the effective use of a CSX font by
speakers of languages other than English a major problem. It is not
that there is no ROOM for the accented characters. They have just been
shunted aside out of the way as unimportant in a rather blythely
cavalier fashion. I do think that before we perpetuate this injustice,
we should think carefully whether it is really necessary and
justified. In many ways, the Nina 1.0 font, although itself neither
beautiful nor bug-free is IMO a better allocation of characters.
Traditional accented characters are left in their accustomed
positions, and can therefore be used equally conveniently by both
English-speakers and others alike. Surely that is preferable to a font
that can ONLY be used satisfactorily by English-speakers.
Although English-speaking myself, and myself quite content with the
CSX layout for my own use, I would personally, advocate that any
future attempt to arrive at a true "standard" for an Indology font
should have EVERYONE'S convenience in mind. I think it is more
important to arrive at a good and just final solution than to arrange
a "quick fix" for just Anglo-American convenience. An extended
Classical Sanskrit eXtended will condemn non-English speakers to keep
changing font every time they want to revert to commentary in their
own languages. Would the Anglo-American fraternity be happy with this,
if the boot were on the other foot?
I dare say the result is effectively a foregone conclusion (unless a
good number of other Indologists take the same line!), but I would not
like the above point to be passed over simply by default.
John Richards
Stackpole Rectory, Pembroke, UK
jhr at elidor.demon.co.uk
http://www.elidor.demon.co.uk
