The status of Bangani is so far debatable. As for Brahui, it is Dravidian,
not Indo-European. There is a debate on whether Brahui is the descendant of
the people that inhabited the Harappa region, or whether it was introduced
in its present place in medieval times through a migration.
I think it is clear from Prakrit languages that the dialect situation was
more complex than the written testimonies would seem to imply. But linguists
are aware of that.
Retroflexion in Sanskrit may be caused by contact with non-IE languages, or
it may be something that developed in Sanskrit for internal reasons. But
there is far more than retroflexion to indicate a migration.
Not true. Mallory is an archaeologist, and he doesn't seem to mind the
migration theory at all. The fact is that in the West, very few people in
Academia, whether linguists or archaeologists, disagree with the migration
theory. The ones that reject it, do so because there is little *material*
evidence that a migration took place. But this implies that all migrations
would have to be characterised by material evidence. This, however, is not
necessarily the case. Witzel has already given a couple of examples of this.
As far as I can see, details have been given several times over, often by
Witzel. E.g.: The idea that India was "invaded" by a military force of
Indo-Aryans that proceeded to destroy the Indus culture, has been rejected.
Apart from that, I refer to the lists presented by Witzel.
out and
You seem to forget a few details here. The Indo-European expansion took
place over a period of 2-3000 years. Not all Indo-Europeans left Ukraina
directly. Based on genetic evidence, it seems more probable that they would
stay in a place for some centuries, then some of them would move on (a
multi-centre model). Basically the pattern you find among the Greeks and
their colonies in the Mediterranean in ancient times. It is also very
probable that Indo-Europeans mixed with the local populations they came to
dominate, so that the genetic basis of the Indo-Europeans was rather mixed
both in Europe and elsewhere. As for South Asia, the genetic evidence would,
according to Cavalli-Sforza, be compatible with a migration of people from
Anatolia, which would imply that the Indo-Aryans spent some time in that
area, and that Anatolians were part of the "genetic make-up" of the Aryans
that entered Anatolia in the second millenium B.C.E.
produce
culture
I do not have to prove anything of the sort. If the Aryans were a mixed lot
of people, linguistically unified, but genetically diverse, and if there was
a substantial component of Anatolians among them, there is no reason to
doubt that there would be enough people to "fill up" parts of India with
Indo-Aryans. Anyway, we have to define what "many" is supposed to mean.
Since we do not have censuses for the period, we can only work on the basis
of models. In other words, we must look at what happened in other places in
the ancient world. And if we do, there is really little reason to doubt a
migration theory.
I am afraid that we are in a rhetorical match no matter what we do :-)!
But I really think it is high time that we start to look at what we mean
when we use such words as "proof" and "evidence". What I tried to show with
my statistical story in my last posting, is that even very strong evidence
still does not constitute proof in the mathematical sense of the word. It is
a thread which deserves a follow-up.
Best regards,
Lars Martin Fosse
Dr.art. Lars Martin Fosse
Haugerudvn. 76, Leil. 114,
0674 Oslo
Fax: +47 22 32 12 19
Email: lmfosse at online.no
Mobile phone: 90 91 91 45
