Saras... (Soma vessel)
AGAIN, it
the
  The fact that the filter looks different in the RV does not, IMHO,
make a very sound argument. Consider, for example, the coffee drinking
habit in South India. At the same time you can see 4 different types
of the coffee filter viz., made of steel, gauze cloth, brass and being
part of the international trade network, paper.
whatever
fit.
Refer above. There can be filters and filters. Mahadevan does have the
following to say: " A comparison of the Harappan filter symbol and the
Rgvedic expressions cited above indicates that the upper vessel
corresponds to sAnu, the 'top' of the Vedic filter device, and the
horizontal bands of lines drawn across the upper vessel represent
layers of some porous medium for straining (probably sheep wool as
described in the RV)." (ibid. p 18)
5:
Correct me if I'm wrong, I am however under the impression that the
pressing boards have not found any mention in the RV text itself
(barring "camvoh sutah"?)
directly into a
Refer in this context, IM's interpretation of
A yonim somah sukrtam niSHIdati (9.70.7) (ibid. p 19).
Also, refer the way the hymn dealing with Indra's birth has been
interpreted:
nAham ato nirayA durgahaitat tirazcatA pArzvAn nirgamAni (4.18.2).
Also, the path of the Soma thru the sieve:
ati zritI tirazcatA gavyA jigAty aNvyA (9.14.6)
it,
Refer in this connection the three part dashed line grapheme in the
Indus sign list. (Mahadevan 1977: Signs 119, 120 and 121 & their
graphic variants called the "Flow" signs. Also refer Signs 336, 337,
335 called "Mortar" signs. as well as Signs 332, 333, 334 called
"Sieve" signs )
drinkable.
I do not think an identical preparation and drinking process is being
advanced by anyone here. Also, refer interpretation of dhAmanI pratIcI
(9.66.2), samIcIne dhiSHaNe (10.44.8), yamyA samyAti (9.68.3), sa
mAtarA vicaran (9.68.4) in support of the twin vessels concept
advanced by IM.
speak
caves/holes....
Refer above.
I am not so sure. Evidently, IM's paper needs to be read in the
original.
I agree. But let us look at some very basic questions. Is Indra
attested outside IA? Is Soma attested outside IA-IIr? Is it
inconceivable that a pre-Aryan myth/ritual is adopted wholesale by the
Vedic speakers and grafted onto Indra, no doubt for authenticity etc?
Won't be the first time, would it?
I would like to close this long post with a quote: " Our sources of
information are scanty. The truth can often not be based on
incontestable facts but must be elicited from circumstantial evidence.
Yet, we can, ... piece together a fairly accurate picture of Vedic
material culture". (W. Rau, The Meaning of _Pur_ in Vedic Literature,
Munich 1973).
Thanking Lord Venkateswara for getting W. Rau to write this monograph
in English -;)))
Warm Regards.
==
Lakshmi Srinivas
DO YOU YAHOO!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
