From sns at IX.NETCOM.COM  Thu Jun 18 17:26:55 1998
From: sns at IX.NETCOM.COM (Sn. Subrahmanya)
Date: Thu, 18 Jun 98 12:26:55 -0500
Subject: Tampering with history
Message-ID: <161227039998.23782.9973150556372893670.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

At 11:07 PM 6/10/98 +0200, Lars Martin Fosse wrote:
>
> In the case of the migration theory, I, for one,
>would regard the linguistic evidence as extemely important, whereas other
>evidence would have to be interpreted in the light of the linguistic
>evidence.
>
Please provide references to linguistic evidence (collected since
150 years! ) that has conclusively proved a migration.
All the linguists seem to agree on "migration into India" but when
it comes to the details,  the solidarity breaks up, often contradicting
one another completely. Just check what the various scholars say , and
see how divergent and contradictory the views are.
Witzel in a previous posting provided references to many of
the bhai-bhai (kinship?) linguistic hypotheses and he even discounted
them - Do you realize why ?. Because,in my opinion, all such bhai-bhai
thories basically  weaken the Aryan invasion/migration theory. Just
as an example pick up the Aryan and Non-Aryan in India and verify if
the wide range of views presented there, corroborate or contradict one
another.

Because of the wide range of views (and contradicting one another),
your opinion, that there is conclusive linguistic evidence
of a migration into India, is not correct.

It is one thing to keep referring to  "linguistic
evidence" and totally another to provide conclusive evidence.

Coming to the recent political postings:
The "Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan" scholarship has had to live
up to better scrutiny than the migrationists.
Because of the lack of proper checks, balances and scrutiny, the
migrationists have for long evaded answering questions and felt free
to postulate all kinds of theories.
Now that the "Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan" scholars dont look
for big brother approval one has to resort to labelling and
villifying.

As for the comments  about  political motivation - All I can say is
invasion/migration theorists should look in the mirror before attributing
motives to others and  scholars living in the racist and political
invasion/migration theory glass house shouldnt  be throwing stones.
Anyone with a basic knowledge of history would know.


Regards,
Subrahmanya




