method of dating RV/retro
On Wed, 10 Jun 1998, Sn. Subrahmanya wrote:
First let me state very clearly that I am not committed, life or death, to
an immigration theory. As I said before, new data will change our
perception and conclusions if we are not encrusted, fanatic etc.
So, if the "anti-immigration" theorists can show me how all of the
following items emerged locally in the (North-Western) Subcontinent I am
quite willing to change my stand. This has not happened so far and the
available data speak in favor of the trickling in or immigration of a
number of Indo_Aryan clans and tribes, followed by quick acculturation and
spread of the newly emerging model all over the Panjab. (e.g., Allchin
1995, myself 1995, and many others before that)
The items I would like to see explained as local development:
- emergence of (often innovative) Old Indo-Aryan language (Vedic), while
(often archaic) Old Iranian and (in some respetcs) even more conservative
Hittite, Greek, Latin etc. are found everywhere from Afghanistan to the
Atlantic.
- emergence of IA poetry which closely follows the O.Iranian and IE
models
- emergence of the complex IA religion which is very close to the OIr.
one, down to the names of their gods and to their myths,  while there
are close relations to other IE religions and myths
- emergence of a complex system of customs, beliefs and rituals which have
their cose relations in Iran and often surprising ones in the rest of the
IE area.
- emergence of the IA type of family structure, kinship, social
organization which is close to the rest of the IE area but not to the rest
of the subcontinent
- emergence of many sets of names for animals and plants which have links
with Iran and Europe but not to the subcontinent
- and of course the often discussed question:  horses and their importance
in IE language, myth, ritual etc., while there is no *proved, tested* case
of any horses in the subcontinent before c. 1700 BC, and while the horse
does not play the same role in the most ancient Dravidian, Munda, Indus
cultures.
I probably forgot some items. But this should be enough to keep this
discussion going for one year....
Hiebert, in the same vol., has provided a detailed archaeological scenario
along the same lines. Cf also Allchin 1995.
NB: 'reconciled' is choice of (Parpola's) words only. There are clearly
imported items/features in the newly emerging BMAC which, according to
archaeologists, not Parpola and not me either, that derive from the
northern steppe belt. A re-combinated culture.
First the immigration theory is not 'pre-supposed', created out of
nothing,  but built up on data
collected over  the past 150 years or so. These data would have to be
dislodged if another 'pre-supposed' (e.g. the Indian homeland theory)
should be accepted.
In any theory, one has to fit in new data (cf. also L.Fosse). If the new
data do NOT fit, and cannot be explained by clearly defined special
conditions, one has to abandon the theory. The BMAC does NOT speak against
the immigration model, on the contrary.
I would say so, yes, except for "indigenous". "Local", yes, after initial
trickling in and acculturation. But as usual, the case is more
complicated. NEVER simple solutions... (And as for Daasa, that needs another
investigation, because of the  confusion between real and mythological
enemies, see below. Parpola uses the word in serveral senses).
That also is correct. The Dahai, Parnoi  (O.Persian Dahyu is more complex)
are placed at the northern fringes of Iran/Afghanistan.
As I have explained already in the Erdosy vol. (and as Parpola has done in
1988, and others before him, e.g. Hillebrandt in 1907, a man who was
against all racial interpretations!), these are reminiscences of earlier
locations, along with others such as the Rasaa/Sindhu complex
(real & mythological).
It is a well known fact that mythological figures & people serve for
denigration, as mentioned just now (by L. Fosse I think) with ref. to
