Chariots (was horse argument) 2/2
Michael Witzel <witzel at FAS.HARVARD.EDU> wrote:
Word for horse does not prove chariots.
I guess I am totally ignorant. What PIE words are unquestionably
connected to chariotry? [Let us concentrate on chariots in this
thread.]
The situations are different. We have independent evidence that humans
had a little finger before PIE evolved. But there is no evidence that
true chariots existed before 1800 BCE.
A minor point: Kikkuli was a Hurrian, as were the young men recruited
into the mariannu (and according to Diakonoff, that word has a
satifactory Near Eastern etymology.
Anyway, there are books on Nyaya in one of our libraries. Bulk of the
books on formal logic are in a different library. If a visitor from
Alpha Centauri were to look only at the first and concluded that Frege
et. al were inspired by Indians, would it be correct?
The point is that we have fragments of other texts on horses and
chariots from the Hittite archives. Chariots are mentioned in >military
context<, used by both Hittites and Hurrians, during the >Old Hittite
period<, almost 300 years before Kikkuli.
And what is the evidence for claiming that Mitannis' methods were
better? Bear in mind that the Hittite archives contained other texts on
horse training. Just because, by chance, one text has come complete
while others have not, we cannot conclude that the former is better.
I am sorry for yet another fence-post error. If there are n circuits,
there would be 2n-1 turns.
I did not know that only the turn at the end was counted. I will
appreciate textual citations that prove this (for each culture
involved).
You are right. I should have said that bits were not in use in India
and that the statements of Arrian and others supports this. Also,
archaeological evidence supports the conclusions that bits were
introduced into India only in historical times. See Leshnik AJA 1971
pp. 141--150 as well as Sparreboom, Chariots in the Veda, p. 115-117.
So the question remains:If there was a continuity of domesticated horses
from bit using people to early historical India, why was there a change
from bits to nose bands when the latter are inferior due to constriction
of air passages?
Not always. People use loan translations too.
What matters is experience with reconstructed harness + vehicles.
I have written to Sparreboom concerning this, among other questions
about chariot construction and use that come from what he says in his
book. It would be proper for me wait for his reply before discussing
them here.
Modern harnessing is far removed from ancient practices. Even minor
changes can make adjustment tricky. There were a lot of experienced
drivers who were tripped by rear mounted engines which affect the
handling characteristics. And few of them are able to explain the
physics behind it.
That is why, till I see description of experiments with reconstructed
harnesses, bridling and vehicles that contradict them, I will continue
to accept the conclusions of Spruytte. No such experiments are described
by Sparreboom or Kuzmina. So I see no reason to change my conclusions.
A minor point: Kikkuli was a Hurrian (and the maryannu were recruited
from among Hurrians).
Anyway, this text was found in an archive, where fragments of other
texts dealing with horses and chariots were found. All of us buy books
for our collections when we already know what is in those books. Finding
this one book does not imply that Hittites imported Kikkuli to >teach<
them.
But one does buy books one does not really need. And as a glance
around any US university or software company will show, people
can be imported for reasons other than total lack of knolwedge/
inferior technology in the importing country.
-Nath
