Tampering with history I
At 09:18 AM 6/19/98 -0400, Michael Witzel wrote:
well here goes...
The Rgveda is mostly representative of the Puru language and not of all Arya
presence in Afghanistan,Tajikistan and the Tarim Basin
You are basing the argument on your dating the Rgveda to
1500BC and then stating it was lost 'immediately' afterwords.
The Vedic religion is the Indian source (more specifically Puru).
Again, you dont agree with the fire altars from SIVC. Also, it is strange
that if these were simple cooking places, that they would be on a raised
platform in an important location.
I would suggest that you find out how long  the Akhal Teke horse has been
present in Turkmenistan. Then we will find out whethar the Harappans
knew about horses or not. The Rgvedic terms are local Indian terms.
Of course Tarim Basin,Tajikistan and Afghanistan are cold regions.
AFAIK, there is no conclusive evidence in this matter. All kinds
of areas have been postulated based on these methods.
More on this after I get some more literature by ILL.
What kind of family structure have you been able to create for
Dravidian, Munda societies ?  How have you decided that the Dravidian
or Munda societies were not patrilinear ? .
You could very well be talking about family structure of any ancient
group of people. There is nothing special about the IE family structure.
All these are just vague generalities.
Again,What is this special structure of the IE society ? All societies have
divisions in their society. How have you decided that this society is
incompatible with Harappan society. This could be any ancient society for
that matter. Again refer to 7.
Relationships between Dravidian and Finno-Ugric languages have been postulated.
I hope that you realize you are talking of very different time periods.
Also, please provide some references.
This probably coulld be explained by a migration out of the Indian Linguistic
Area. I presume you are also not implying that the Harappans did not know
these items.
Additionally - I would also like to bring to your attention.
The celtic weaves "endless knot motifs" of the Tocharians, the
nomads of the Zagros region of Iran and later on in Europe -
and then figure out the direction of the movement of the tribes.
Bottom line - you havent provided any conclusive evidence that proves
that the Rgvedic people were not indigenous to India.
That is why, we have to wait for more data to be available.
Hopefully, in the coming years we will know more from the 'migration trail
archeology' and then we will definitely have conclusive evidence.
Also, if the Rgveda (or even parts of it) is dated to before the appearance
of the Hittites then there will have to be a reevaluation of the current
theories accepted in the West.
More later, when my wrist heals.
Regards,
Subrahmanya
