Tampering with history
At 01:37 21.06.98 +0100, you wrote:
As far as a I can see, most shifts in language of the kind we see in India
are due to migrations: Greeks in Greece, Hittites in Anatolia, Italic
speakes in Italy, etc. etc. How to put "large enough" into figures is, of
course, a more difficult matter. But let me point to the fact that the
Muslim invasions in India did not change the linguistic map of India
substantially. You got Urdu, which is a Muslim version of Hindustani, but
basically an Indian language. Persian was widely used for a period by the
educated, but neither Turkish, Persian or any Central Asian language was
established as the everyday language of ordinary people. The same argument
applies to the Huns. But then the military Muslim elites were small. In the
case of the Aryan migrations, we must have had much more than military
elites. There will have been all kinds of people, if you like whole tribes,
men, women and children, pouring in, which means that Vedic/Sanskrit/Prakrit
would be met at all levels of society. This is a slightly different process
from the one described by Palaniappan. After all, Tamil was changed, but
into another Dravidian language. The Nambudiri brahmins did not create a
whole linguistic family. But apart from that, the example is interesting.
But how many? Impossible to say.
I don't think it is a personal view at all. To the contrary, it is very much
in keeping with the process described by Witzel, where he postulates a
steady trickle of Indo-Aryans into India for several generations. AS for
confrontation, we know that the Indo-Aryans were warlike - the Veda tells us
so - and that they probably would fight both other Indo-Aryans and
non-Aryans. What is outdated, is the "massive war-like invasion theory"
where the Aryans come storming down from the hills flattening the
Indus-culture on their way. But that was certainly not my point. What I was
talking about, was basically the demographic situation, not the quality of
human relationships in North India.
Best regards,
Lars Martin
Dr.art. Lars Martin Fosse
Haugerudvn. 76, Leil. 114,
0674 Oslo
Fax: +47 22 32 12 19
Email: lmfosse at online.no
Check out: http://www.nofsa.uio.no
Mobile phone: 90 91 91 45
