From a018967t at BC.SEFLIN.ORG  Tue Jul  7 12:46:01 1998
From: a018967t at BC.SEFLIN.ORG (Aditya, the Hindu Skeptic)
Date: Tue, 07 Jul 98 08:46:01 -0400
Subject: Archaeologist explodes myth of Ram Janambhoomi being in Ayodhya              (http://209.19
Message-ID: <161227040631.23782.2909186650808983876.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>




----------------------------------------------------------------------------
----

      HOME | NEWS | SPECIALS
ELECTIONS '98
      COMMENTARY
      SPECIALS
      INTERVIEWS
      CAPITAL BUZZ
      REDIFF POLL
      DEAR REDIFF
      THE STATES
      YEH HAI INDIA!
      ARCHIVES


      The Rediff Special
      Archaeologist questions Ram Janambhoomi being in Ayodhya


      Banawali in Hisar district of Haryana, by which the long-lost river
Saraswati once flowed, is probably the Ram Janambhoomi (the birth place of
Lord Ram) and not Ayodhya as is the common belief.

      This theory has been propounded by veteran archaeologist M V N Krishna
Rao, a pioneer in deciphering the Indus Valley civilisation script, who
unravelled the famous 'Pashupati' seal in 1969.

      In a paper titled 'Rama and Ravana in Indus Seals', contributed to the
'J P Joshi felicitation volume', Dr Rao has based his conclusion on his
reading of the Banawali seals.

      Dr Joshi is the former director general of the Archaeological Survey
of India and Dr Rao, a former deputy superintending archaeologist with the
ASI.

      In his interpretation of the Ramayana, Dr Rao has identified 'Rama
Sana' of Indus seals with 'Ramachandra' and thereby with king 'Rim Sin of
Larsa' in Sumer, who ruled the vast lands of Sumer, Elam, the Indus Valley
and the present-day Iran and Afghanistan from 1753 to 1693 BC.

      'Rim Sin' assumed the title of 'king of all lands' by the consent of
Goddess 'Nin Makh' at 'Opis', his second capital in Babylonia.

      Dr Rao says the archaeological evidence found in the Indus seals
showed that 'Rim Sin' had fought for a long time an undecided war with King
'Hammurabi' identified as 'Ravana' of the Indus seals.

      The king of Babylonia was finally able to defeat 'Hammurabi' in the
joint action with the chief of 'Subartu', 'Hurrian' and 'Mitannian'.
'Hammurabi' was killed in the fight, as suggested by one of the Indus seals
which has a legend reading 'Ravani Dama' or destroyer of Ravana.

      Dr Rao says the Indus seals found on the banks of river Saraswati
suggest that Banawali must be Ram Janambhoomi and not Ayodhya.

      He points out that under project 'Archaeology of the Ramanaya Sites'
headed by Prof B B Lal, excavations were conducted at Ayodhya, Bharadwaja
Ashram and Sringaverpura from 1975 and 1980.

      At Ayodhya, the remains of a Hindu temple belonging to 'Gahadwal king
of Kannauj of 11th century AD' were found underlying the Babri mosque.

      The antiquity of the other Ramayana sites excavated does not go
earlier than 1000 BC.

      This late dating of the sites had ''dismayed the experts, and the view
that Ayodhya was Ram Janambhoomi was abandoned,'' Dr Rao claims.

      Dr Rao, who used the principle of acriphony to read the proto-Vedic
language of Indus seals, says Vedic texts and Puranas almost correctly
mentioned the names of different tribes and the kings of different dynasties
in different regions.

      Having read all the 1650 seals that were legible out of the total 2325
Indus seals, he says the names of rulers of Babylonia, Assyria, Elam, Juda
and Egypt. along with their country and city names were sanskritised in the
Vedic and Puranic texts.

      Written at a very later date, the epics and Puranas got confused in
the identification of geographical landmarks -- names of rivers, mountains
and cities. In such circumstances, he says, there is little wonder if they
placed Ayodhya on the river Saryu near Faizabad instead of Saraswati in
Haryana.

      Dr Rao says possibly it is also one of the reasons for their confusion
as the Aryans adopted the same names to the rivers and cities while
gradually migrating towards east from Iran, Afghanistan, Indus Valley to the
Jamuna-Gangetic valley. Such frequent changes of place names was a common
practice among the conquering and migrating races of the ancient world.

      The latest findings revealed that the Indus civilisation covered a
vast region on the east-west axis from Alamgirpur to Sutkagendor and on the
north-south axis from Ropar to Bhagatrav, about another 1600 km. No other
ancient civilisation could boast of such a vast distribution of space as
claimed by the Indus civilisation. Moreover, it had nearly 1300 km of
seaboard along the west coast.

      Archaeologists at the beginning of the present century, Dr Rao says,
had unearthed in Iraq some very important clay tablets, stone Stela with
carved inscriptions and other art objects revealing significant information
about 'Rim-Sin'' and 'Hammurabi', who became famous for establishing an
empire and for furnishing a law code.

      'Rim-Sin', whose name was read in the Indus seals as 'Rama Sana', was
the son of 'Kudur Mabug (or Mabhana of Indus seal)' and reigned in Larsa,
the modern Sankera in Iraq.

      'Rim' in Sumerian language means 'ruler' and 'Raman' is the name of
'thunder god of the Amorites'. 'Sin' means 'moon god' in Akkadian language
and 'Sana' means 'god of thunder storm' in the Indus language, Dr Rao
explains.

      Before his accession to the throne of Larsa in Sumer, Rim's brother
'Aard-Sin' ruled for 12 years. His father 'Kudur Mabug' reigned in Jamutbal,
a kingdom on the coast of the Persian Gulf towards east of river Tigris
adjoining Elam. ''This name is identical with Jabuna or Sapuna or Jambudvipa
of Indus Valley.'' Rim-Sin appears to be an Aryan chief ruling over
Elamites, Sumerians and Aryans of Indus civilisation, Dr Rao says.

      UNI

      The Rediff Specials

      Tell us what you think of this feature

      HOME | NEWS | BUSINESS | CRICKET | MOVIES | CHAT
      INFOTECH | TRAVEL | LIFE/STYLE | FREEDOM | FEEDBACK



-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/19980707/6dbbae81/attachment.htm>

