Sanskrit
Walker.
 << The Indo-Iranian triabl
dimensions,Brahmaa, Shiva, VishNu, KrishNa, the Naagas, the Linga.>>
I am a little lost here...what exactly am I supposed to understand by
saying that kingdoms on great rivers and jungle retreats of the rishis?
Were they independent each of other? Er, no...Dr walker should know that
there was a lot of interaction between the RSis and the kings
Secondly, when did the Nagas become Gods ?
This seems to be a very..ahem... interesting theory and I would like to
know what establioshed scholars think of this...I would like to point
out
1. Tsangpo is the Tibetean name for the Brahmaputra.
2. Many tibetean name places and proper names are themselves from
Samskrt and have undergone the *Cunning changes* FROM samskrt (alluded
to by Dr Walker)..also , is "bhullum" phonetically correct? I have been
assured that the letters gh, jh, th, bh are missing in tibetean
(This from somebody who has studided Tibetean formally for ten long
years).
 << Charioteers were court bards and their familiarity with
This, AFAIK, is inconsistent with : 1. The fact that Karna in the MBh
was insulted as the "Son of a charioteer" i.e. the status being very
much lower than a court bard....charioteers were not all that familar
with the priestly tongue and and were not court bards...
have advoacated the abandonment of Sanskrit as a vehicle of thought
expression.  As Raammohan Roy put it,
Oh really! Boy, I wonder why Dayananda Saraswati, who was also a social
reformer in the 19th century went to the other end and insisted on
everybody learning Samskrt? Please also read about the
politics/activities of the DharmarakSana sabhA in Madras in the early
part of the century; you will soon discover how wrong the above
statement( about reformers that is) is...
Sidestory: In the not-too-distant past, somebody ;-) quoted the Same Dr
Walker about the deleterious effect that Samskrt had on other languages
and asked Dr George Hart for his reaction.. Dr Hart's reply was that
such ideas were decidedly fascist.
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
