From magier at COLUMBIA.EDU  Thu Jul 30 17:13:52 1998
From: magier at COLUMBIA.EDU (David Magier)
Date: Thu, 30 Jul 98 13:13:52 -0400
Subject: job reposting - BAS
Message-ID: <161227041065.23782.14157761070353997213.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Job re-posting:

---------------------------
ASSOCIATE EDITOR FOR SOUTH ASIA,
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF ASIAN STUDIES,
ASSOCIATION FOR ASIAN STUDIES, INC.

and

EDITOR FOR SOUTH ASIA
SOUTH ASIA COOPERATIVE INDEXING PROJECT

The Association for Asian Studies, Inc. seeks an energetic
bibliographer, librarian or scholar to compile, input, and edit
bibliographical entries for Western-language journal articles,
chapters in edited volumes, and conference proceedings, etc. dating
from the 1990s and beyond in all academic disciplines and subject
areas concerning South Asia (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India,
the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka) for inclusion in the
Bibliography of Asian Studies (BAS).  The Associate Editor will be
expected to work at the Columbia University Libraries in New York
City, utilizing the Libraries' extensive holdings of South
Asia-related materials. The BAS project is a long-term half-time (20
hours per week) position, funded by the Association for Asian
Studies. The Associate Editor will work closely with and report
directly to Dr. Anna Leon Shulman, Editor of the Bibliography of Asian
Studies.  The successful applicant for this position will also be
expected to assume a second part-time position, doing an additional
10-20 hours per week of similar work at the Columbia University
Libraries in close coordination with the Libraries' South Asia
Librarian, Dr. David Magier, on the South Asia Cooperative Indexing
Project. This retrospective BAS indexing project, sponsored by a
consortium of South Asia libraries, covers older South Asian materials
not previously indexed in the BAS. The position is on the payroll of
Columbia University Libraries, with grant funding from various
sources, and is expected to last at least several years.  (Future
funding for this part-time position, however, is not guaranteed.)

Qualifications: The successful applicant will be expected to have (a)
a strong subject knowledge or background in one or more aspects of
South Asian studies (humanities or the social sciences strongly
preferred), (b) an awareness of the elements of bibliographical work
or cataloging, (c) familiarity with basic computer applications,
including the ability to enter bibliographical data into an electronic
database, (d) the ability to work efficiently and effectively on both
an independent basis and with the Editor of the BAS and the South Asia
Librarian at Columbia.  Some prior bibliographical and/or
library-related experience is desirable.  Familiarity with Macintosh
is preferred but not required.  Working hours can be flexible.

Salary:  Commensurate with experience and qualifications.

Starting Date: As soon as possible.  The search will continue until
the positions are filled.  The initial review will be conducted on
August 10.  It is therefore important that interested applicants be in
communication with the Search Committee by then even if their
applications are not complete.  Applications will be considered
without regard to gender, race, color, creed, age, national or ethnic
origin, or disability.

NOTE: Applicants for the Spring 1998 posting of the BAS position do
not need to resubmit an application, but to be considered, they must
inform both the Editor and David Magier that they are interested in
the position as described in this revised posting.

A formal letter of application including a resume and three or more
letters of references should be sent directly to the Editor with
copies to David Magier as follows:

Dr. Anna Leon Shulman
Editor, Bibliography of Asian Studies
Association for Asian Studies
9225 Limestone Place
College Park, MD 20740-3943

Tel. and Fax: 301-935-5614
aslshulman at aol.com


Dr. David Magier
South Asia Librarian
Columbia University
304 International Affairs
420 West 118 Street
New York, NY  10027

212-854-8046
FAX: 212-854-3834
magier at columbia.edu




