Decipherment of Indus Script
*For more recent comments to the Indus Script decipherment problem see:
*http://www.vedickalidas.home.ml.org
    I browsed the Web page. Some interesting portions are given below.
    Not sure whether the academy, east or west will agree on these!
    N. S. Rajaram says "Though there is now a tendency to treat
    the Aryan-Dravidian division as a linguistic phenomenon".
    Thank God! The "artifical construct" of Dravidian language
    family is allowed to exist. I am happy. Few in Indology list say
    "DEDR can cease to exist". Shri. Rajaram is more generous
    in this, I am glad to know.
    Regards,
    N. Ganesan
In the Editorial, Shri. N. S. Rajaram, the editor says
[..]
known
grind.
current
expose
the
<<<<
                              VEDIC BOOKSHELF
It becomes logical then to argue for
North India to be the original home of the Aryans. The authors further
argue for a reversal of the movement of the Aryans: they moved out of
India
into the outlying areas, into Persia and beyond. This new theory
receives
support from archaeology, from a comparative analysis of Mesopotamian
and
Egyptian mathematics with Vedic mathematics.
 -  Professor K.D. Prithipaul
There are now scholars
mainly outside the establishment who are both original thinkers and
compelling writers. One of them is Shrikant Talageri, the author of the
book under review. His book upsets the whole framework built on the
belief
that the Rigveda contains the oldest records of India; Talageri?s
contention, well supported, is that the much-maligned Puranas actually
contain the accounts of the oldest dynasties of India. With this
seemingly
simple shift, he not only presents a coherent picture of ancient India,
but
also arrives at a plausible scenario for the origin and spread of the
Indo-European speakers. When Talageri?s book appeared in 1993, this was
like a bolt from the blue;
Talageri?s most remarkable conclusion is the
following: the Aryan dynasties' expansion in North India was from east
to
west and not from the nortwest to the Ganga valley as the invasionist
dogma
would have it.
The Aryan Invasion: History or Politics?
<<<
The evidence of science now points to two basic conclusions:
first, there was no Aryan invasion, and second, the Rigvedic
people were already established in India no later than 4000 BC.
[...]
Though there is now a tendency to treat the Aryan-Dravidian
division as a linguistic phnomenon, its roots are decidedly
racial and political ...
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
