Decipherment of Indus Script
*Breakthrough! So many claims have been made so far (cf. Possehl's Indus
Age:
*Writing System)that I am submitting this after careful deliberation and
18
*years of work on an electronic comparative Indian lexicon.
[...]
*Language? Indic (of the Indian Sprachbund ca. 3000 BC in Sarasvati and
Sindhu
*River Valleys--from Ga_ndha_ra to Lothal, from Shahr-i-Sokhta to
Rupar).
      Does this mean that the IVC seals is a mixture of Sanskrit
      and Dravidian? Why I am asking this is Dr. Kalyanaraman
      has written few times about coalsceing "so-called" Dravidian
      and "so-called" Indo-Aryan into "Indian Sprachbund ca. 3000 BC"
      in this forum.
In Indology forum on 27-feb-1995, Mr. S. Kalyanaraman wrote
under the title
 "Semantic clustering technique in South Asian dictionary",
 *   I think I have proved that Burrow and Emeneau's
 *   work is an aberrant, erroneous construct of a artificial family;
 *   most of their etyma (over 4,000 out of 5,000) really belong with
 *   the rest of the family of languages of South Asia.
      Is Dravidian language family really an aberrant, erroneous
      construct? Is Dravidian an "artificial" family?
Regards,
N. Ganesan
In Indology link to members' queries, post etc, one can find:
Sarasvati-Sindhu civilization (c. 3000 B.C.)
<<<
More researches need to be done in identifying the civilization that
flourished along the Sarasvati river. Balarama's sojourn along this
river
up from the Rann of Kutch is depicted in the Mahabharata. This has to be
studied further. Sanskrit literature will have abundant material on the
importance of sarasvati. Siddha-mAtrka is the name of the BrAhmi script.
BrAhmi is another name for Sarasvati. Without apriori assumption that
brAhmI was derived from the Indus\-Sarasvati seal inscription script, it
should be possible to postulate a hypothesis that sarasvati river played
a
significant part in the sustenance of the civilization circa 3000 to
1700
B.C. This may mean a new paradigm in our protohistoric studies. Aryans
and
Dravidians and perhaps Mundas lived in harmony in this civilization. The
so-called indo-aryan and so-called dravidian languages may have
originated
from the common lingua franca spoken by these people on the Indus and
Sarasvati river valleys. Thus, common words of Tamil can be found in
Sanskrit/Vedic. The author claims to have established that the Dravidian
etymological dictionary with 5000 entries can cease to exist since many
of
these words have cognates in vedic/munda and many south asian languages.
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
