George Thompson wrote (19 Oct.):
        I doubt it. I am very much interested in your attempts to trace
in the RV evidence of some Indo-Iranian interaction (though I would refer
this evidence not to the period of the original Indo-Iranian community,
but to the "second Indo-Iranian period", when Eastern Iranians and
Proto-Indo-Aryans met again on the territory of BMAC). But I can not agree
when you use the term "Scythian" for the Eastern Iranian element in the RV.
We designate by the name "Scyths / Scythians" only those specific people
of the Eurasian steppes who used very distinctive sets of metal weapons
and horse harness and developed the Animal style. The "Scythian language"
known to us mostly due to proper names preserved by the Greek records,
was one of the dialects (a northern one) of the Ancient Eastern Iranian.
But the Scyths or Scythian culture did not exist before 8th cent. BC.
We know very well that this culture "emerged" , though in a somewhat
revolutionary way, out of the related preceeding cultures, such as Timber
Grave and Andronovo: but nobody would ever suggest that the people of these
ancient cultures spoke "Scythian" or even "Proto-Scythian" language.
It would be much more reasonable to suggest that their language was rather
some early dialect of Ancient Eastern Iranian. And there are even less
reasons to call "Scythian" the dialects spoken by those Eastern Iranian
tribes that had moved southwards, to the borders of India, and had come
there into contact with Indo-Aryans some centuries before the Scythian culture
came into being.
        There is no doubt in the Iranian origin of the name 'kanIta'. But
why should we consider it to be a specifically Scythian name, and not
Eastern Iranian in general?
        As far as I know the Scyths proper (contrary to the Central Asian
Eastern Iranians) were natural horsemen (but not charioters) and did not
use camels.
        If the person which you see in your meditations were Scythian, then
it should wear a conical hat, leather trousers and some other very specific
dress items, which, as is well known, came to India only with the SAka invaders
in the 1st century BC.
Best wishes,
                Yaroslav Vassilkov
