SV: SV: Oguibenine's book
Thank you Lars for your precious info.
The info on Oguibenine's book was supplied by Prof. Oguibenine's
himself.
I have not checked the book. Nevertheless, since from the time of
Fascism we "Italianize" (to paraphrase Benjamin's words) into Italian
everything, even comp words that have been invented in English (such as
to scan=scannerizzare -- even though "scannare", which means to cut the
throat of somebody, is also used!). It seems very improbable to me that
the book has been published in Italy in French. But I cannot say
anything before opening it.
(However, we -- Italian Indologists -- all know French pretty well,
therefore in practice French or Italian do not make much difference to
us -- even though yours is a very precious bibliographic info).
Dear Enrica,
I never, never, NEVER for a moment doubted the prodigious linguistic talents of Italian scholars and would indeed be very suprised if you were unable to converse in impeccable French without really noticing that you were doing so - an ability unfortunately not shared by Norwegians, who are the products of a rougher, less sophisticated cultural climate (if I were able to converse in impeccable French, I would notice it all the time). The reason why I added this seemingly unimportant detail about Oguibenine's book is, however, a weighty one. Remember that there are unhappy creatures out there in the world who are unable to read Italian. These poor, lost souls that do not master Europe's most melodious and elegant language might simply despair of ever being able to read Oguibenine's book. Some of these unfortunates, however, are able to hobble along intellectually in French, which is why I decided to releave them of their pain and disappointment and tell them the good news. 
It was not my intention to offend Italy or the Italians. I would never offend a country with such a delicious cuisine. 
Please forgive.
Lars Martin
Dr. art. Lars Martin Fosse
Haugerudvn. 76, Leil. 114,
0674 Oslo
Phone: +47 22 32 12 19
Fax:      +47 22 32 12 19
Email: lmfosse at online.no
