         Discover, April 1995 v16 n4 p30(2)
<<<<<<<<<<<
                 That would support Anthony's views on a much broader
                 question--that of the origin and spread of
                 Indo-European languages. According to a theory that has
                 become popular in the past two decades, the
                 proto-Indo-Europeans were farmers who began to spread
out
                 of Anatolia around 6000 B.C., taking their language and
                 their agriculture with them. But Anthony holds to an
older
                 theory, which says the original Indo-Europeans were
                 horsemen from north of
                 the Black Sea--the people whose wagons appear to be
                 ancestral to the Sintashta chariots. The Sintashta
                 people, he thinks, were the original speakers of
                 Indo-Iranian, which later gave rise to ancient Iranian
                 and to the Indic of the Rig Veda. Theirs was an early
                 step in the spread of Indo-European language and
culture.
                 And the key to that spread, according to Anthony, was
                 wagons and chariots. In all Indo-European languages, he
                 points out, from Celtic to Sanskrit, the words for
axle,
                 wagon, and wheel derive from common roots in the
                 proto-Indo-European that has been reconstructed by
                 linguists. Clearly, Anthony says, speakers of
                 proto-Indo-European must have been familiar with
wheeled
                 vehicles, which weren't invented until after 3500 B.C.
                 "The out-of-Anatolia theory is too early," he says. "It
                 would require Indo-European languages to be widely
                 dispersed across Eurasia 2,000 years before the
invention
                 of wheeled vehicles." Far more logical, Anthony thinks,
                 is to see things this way: when the
proto-Indo-Europeans
                 and their descendants entered Europe and South Asia,
                 carrying their language and their customs with them,
they
                 traveled on wheels.
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
