SV: method of dating RV, III
of> Indo-Aryans and Iranians one only assumes one -very early - migration of
Indo-Iranians.> The subsequent period may then have been one of both
divergence of Iranian(s) and> Indo-Aryan(s) due to geographical, economical
and political factors, and of convergence> due to uninterrupted contacts of
neighbouring groups (Avesta - Rgveda) and to internal> migration (Iranians
into Indian territory but certainly also Indians into Iranian> territory).>
The theory of a double migration is perhaps the strongest impediment to a
proper> understanding of both Iranian and Indian history.> Erik Seldeslachts>
University of Ghent> Ghent, Belgium
One very early migration... the hypothesis of Erik Seldeslachts, is a
fascinating thread and warrants further exploration. The problem gets tougher
because of the next question: How very early? Are there linguistic analytical
tools which can date and separate innovation and continuity in languages?
There is certainly migration of Sanskrit-speakers (not Proto-Indo-Iranian) ca.
15th century BC to Mitanni and Bogazkoi (cf. Kikkuli's horse training manual
with terms such as eka-vartana, dvi-vartana, pan~ca-vartana and names of
Mitanni kings using Sanskrit compounds, cf. Thieme). There was also a Meluhha
interpreter in Sumer (perhaps, a settlement of Meluhhans, cf. Parpola). This
is archaeological/epigraphic evidence. It is also possible that the contacts
in the second millennium between the Sarasvati Sindhu valleys and
Tigris-Euphrates occurred via the Gulf maritime route, moving upstream on
Euphrates towards Anatolia as seen from the evolution of glyphs on cylinder
seals from Sumer to Mitanni and the vivid parallels with the patterns of
ligatured animals, battle scenes, unicorn...
Is there similar archaeological/epigraphical evidence for an Indo-Iranian
hypothesis? Take the diffusion of svastika_ icon for example; the
archaeological sites in NW India have yielded over 50 seals with this icon;
and some have been found in BMAC sites. The icon has been read, in the context
of bronze-age weapons: as satti, knife, dagger (Pali); satthia, auspicious
mark (Pkt.)(http://sarasvati.simplenet.com for the entire corpus of
inscriptions and decipherment method). 
Can Avestan be dated earlier than ca. 600 BC? or ca. 1000 BC as Burrow
attempts to surmise? 
Best regards, Kalyanaraman
More than just email--Get your FREE Netscape WebMail account today at http://home.netscape.com/netcenter/mail
