Who said there are no IA lws in Brahui? Wrong!--Bh.K.
None of the above authors gave a single argument for the breaking away of
Brahui from PD as  the first branch. Does it preserve some very archaic PD
features? If so what? All this speculation arose from Bray's apriori guess
in his second vol. (1934), Part II: The Brahui problem (pp.1-43). Please
read the last sentence of the last paragraph: "The Brahui riddle like the
riddle of the Indus languages remains unsolved. How dramatic, if both were
solved together." (p.43)
To the best of my knowledge no body has seriously examined the closeness
between Kur-Mlt and Brahui. Maybe Elfenbeim did, but I have not read his
articles.  I have hit on some linguistic evidence which points to their
being together until about a millennium ago. The change of *v- to b- is a
Middle Indic change. I do not know the date but it would be around
800-1000CE. [Kannada in the SD also has PD *w- to b- which is dated to the
7th century. But it was an independent development unrelated to IA change.
Marathi and Konkani, Kannada's neighbours do not share the change of v to b.
This evidence does not help in saying that Brah also did the same thing!].
Brah has some exclusive cognates with Kur-Mlt. be:/be:k 'salt', marg 'horn';
The future morph -o: and the past -k is shared by all the three, and no
others. Zvelebil's map of the spread of the Dravidian lgs from NW (a
beutiful diagram indeed) taken from Andronov of 1971 represents a pure
fantasy! Still the SD branch is the most conservative of the Drav. family;
for this there is linguistic proof. Sorry for the Nostratic theory!
The reasons are given above.
There are IA loanwords in Brahui, scores from Sindhi, Jatki, Punjabi, etc.
I haven't looked for those from Bihari and Bengali (not shared by the above
IA lgs.) Maybe we can find some. That is not my present concern.
Please do. I have already looked at this aspect. Bray discusses much of it
in vol.2
Bhadriraju Krishnamurti
H.No. 12-13-1233, "Bhaarati"
Street 9, Tarnaka
Hyderabad 500017
Telephone:40-7019665
