Paired Horse and PIE breakup
 I was really surprised to read P. K. Manansala's
writing in Indology list earlier that
"...,but I don't recall the horse as a particularly important
symbol in the Greek, Roman, Persian or Celtic mythology
I have seen. ..." All my readings indicate the
opposite: Horse played a unique, important role in
IE religion and culture. For eg., horses and Aryans
go hand in hand in the Vedas.
Reading the recent postings, Scythians are related to
Iranians more than to anyothers.
That is why, I am interested in references comparing
the religious complex of Scythians and Altaic-Uralic
peoples? Does the horse complex
of the points given below really extending from Manchuria
to Eastern Europe? Anybody else to confirm or deny
about this? Any publications on the horse
culture civilization myths compared for the
"Scythian-Uralic-Altaic" cultures?
For the record, I don't believe in Computers just
skipping language groups and reaching others.
My cousins work for Microsoft and IBM in India.
They tell me their gurus are American (some may
be India born Americans). Just as Buddhism and Islam
also did not hop over to other lands from
the lands of their birth.
Regards,
N. Ganesan
Regarding the Altaic culture, the similarities between Hsiung-nu and
later Turko-Mongol culture with the culture ascribed to Scythians by
Herodotus and others is well-known.  Here is a partial list:
1. The joint burial of humans with horses often oriented toward East.
2. Fully nomadic society on horseback.
3. Slitting the throat of the chief's wife and servants on tomb
4. Cutting one's enemy's skull at eyebrow level, inlaying with gold
    and covering with leather to make a drinking cup.
5. Head-hunting.
6. Hanging scalps of victims from bridles.
7. Wide trousers strapped to the ankle.
8. Fur cap and cape.
9. Mourn dead by gashing face with knives so "blood flows with
    tears."
10. Had flocks of sheep and herds of horses, camel and cattle.
11. Meat and milk diet.Rarely practiced regular agriculture.
12. Dressed in skins.
13. Wolf as totem guard and revival totem.
14. Used felt tents and brought women and children in wagons.
15. Practiced shamanism based on worship of Heaven and sacred
      mountains.
16. Supreme leader summoned all tribes in the autumn for census of
      humans and animals.
17. Used raiding and fleeing tactics.
18. Depended on mounted bowmen in battle.
19. Used same feigned retreat strategies.
20. Both were experts at firing bows to the rear while mounted.
21. Slept on furs.
22. Usually shaved head except small tuft on top.
23. Used similar small yet fierce pony.
24. Switched horses in battle.
25. Drank blood of horse during battle to prevent dehydration.
26. Usually no beard except tuft on chin.
27. Sheath of bow suspended from belt in front of left thigh.
28. Quiver attached to belt and suspended across back with arrows to
      right.
29. Preferred mare's milk to other types of milk.
30. Similar burial in raised mounds.
31. Similar "plank and file" coffins
32. Similar bows
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
