The RSS prayer -- text, translation, and anecdotes
Hello.
The following is from my new book on RSS and BJP. One chapter in this book
is dedicated to the text and translation of the RSS prarthana (prayer) and
Ekatmata Stotra (previously called Bharat Bhakti Stotra or pratahsmaran).
I am sorry for this self-promotion of my book. But I think one is tempted
to write on this subject which is so important and relevant these days as
far as the rise of Hindutva fascism in India is concerned.
-Partha Banerjee
Author,
In the Belly of the Beast: The Hindu Supremacist RSS and BJP of India -- An
Insider's Story.  Ajanta Books International, Delhi, India.  165 pages.
1998.
RSS Prarthana or Prayer: The Text
[English translation by author is done after Sangh interpretation]
Namaste sada vatsale matribhume
Twaya hindubhume shukham vardhitoham
Mahamangale punyabhume twadarthe
Patatwesha kayo namaste namaste ||1||
Prabho shaktiman hindurashtrangabhuta
Ime sadaram twam namamovayam
Twadiyao karyao baddha katiyam
Shubhamashisham dehi tatpurtaye |
Ajayam cha vishwasya dehisha shaktim
Sushilam jagad jena namra vabet
Shrutam chaiva yat kantakakirnamargam
Swayam swikritam nah sugam karyayet ||2||
Shamutkarshanihshreyasasaikamugram
Param sadhanam naam veerabratam
Tadantahsphuratwakshwa dheyanishtha
Hridantah prajagartu teebrahnisham |
Bijetree cha nah sanhata karyashaktir
Vidhayasya dharmasya sanrakshanam
Param vaibhavam netumetat swarashtram
        Samartha vabatwashisha te vrisham ||3||
Bharata mata ki jay ||
Translation of the RSS prayer.
        Oh Mother (Bharatmata or Mother India) ever-affectionate to your
children-salutation to thee.  Oh Hindu land, I have been happily brought up
by you.  Oh the supreme benefactor holy land, this body be laid down for
you.  Many praises for you.
        Oh mighty Master, as integral parts of the Hindu nation, we
respectfully bow to thee.  We have resolved (fastened our waist-belt) to
perform your works.  Please give us your blessing to fulfill them.  Give us
the universe's unconquerable power; (and) give us good behavior and pure
character that would make the world gentle.  Give us the wisdom that would
make our (voluntarily-taken) thorny roads smooth.
        The only supreme vigorous way to achieve earthly and after-life
well-being and emancipation is the way of might -- this thought be
expressed in our minds.  May an unending devotion to ideology be
ever-kindled in our hearts.  Our vindicated organized work for the
protection of this religion (creed) through your blessings be successful to
bring our rashtra (Hindu nation) to supreme glory.
[Note the emphasis on "only way is the way of might" and "vindicated
organized work for the protection of this religion" - Author.]
