South Asian Archaeology, 1997 (to appear in
Aryan and Non-Aryan in South Asia)
 "The Mehrgarh excavations (Jansen, Mulloy and Urban 1991;
Jarrige, Jarrige Meadow and Quivron 1995), near Sibri,
Pakistan, changed our understanding about the origins
of South Asian food production. Prior to 1980, food
production in South Asia was thought to be a Western,
intrusive cultural invention. This interpretation is
not now acceptable.
 Mehrgarh Period IA dates to the seventh millennium
BC, but some scholars speculate that this dated cultural
unit represents an even earlier culture due to its initial,
complex level of development. Most important was the
identification of wild representatives of domesticable
plants and animals indicating their use by the local
human populations. The Mehrgarh seventh millennium BC
population had a plant economy already based on
domesticated wheats and barley, with a high
incidence (90%) of naked six-row barley, a variety
which occurs only in a post-domestcation context.
Gazelle were hunted along with wild sheep, goat,
cattle and water buffalo. However, the small size
of some goats, a post-domestication trait, and
intentional placement of immature goats in human
burials argues that goats were herded. In
Mehrgarh Period IB, at 6000-5500 BC, fully domesticated
sheep, goats and cattle were the major animals
exploited. Shortly after Period II at Mehrgarh,
domesticated cattle represented 60% of the animals
consumed, reflecting an emphasis, albeit variable,
upon cattle exploitation that persists into the
second millennium BC. This is a rare pattern in the
ancient Old World where domesticated sheep/goat
were the domesticated animals emphasized most.
Furthermore, by the Harappan period, after
2500 BC, specialized cattle pastoralists
have been identified in the prehistoric record
(Rissman and Chitalwala 1990). Equally important
are recent cattle mtDNA studies(5 ref.s) indicating that
South Asia is one of two regions where cattle
were domesticated.
[...]
Indeed, the academic investment in this hypothesis is
so great that the distinguished scholar Colin
Renfrew (1987) opts to distort the archaeological
record rather than to challenge it. Failing to
identify archaeological evidence for such a
migration in the European post-Neolithic periods,
Renfrew argues instead for an IE/Aryan human
migration associated with the spread of food
production economies from ANATOLIA. In doing so,
he ignores critical archaeological data
from Southwest Asia (Lamberg-Karlovsky 1988)
and South Asia (Shaffer 1990) ..."
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
