From naga_ganesan at HOTMAIL.COM  Tue Nov 10 19:44:06 1998
From: naga_ganesan at HOTMAIL.COM (N. Ganesan)
Date: Tue, 10 Nov 98 11:44:06 -0800
Subject: Paired Horse and PIE breakup
Message-ID: <161227042570.23782.9027151996851818012.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

<<<<<<<<<<<
Renfrew puts PIE around or before 6000 BC (the date of the earliest
farmers in Greece and the Balkans) or even earlier, in Anatolia
(Catal Huyuk, c. 7000 BC).  Such dates are impossibly early, and
Renfrew's arguments are linguistically unsound in other respects (if
Hittite is the direct descendant of the "stay behinds" in Anatolia,
and Greek the direct descendant of the language of the first farmers
that crossed over from Anatolia to Greece, then we would expect Greek
to be closest to Hittite.  In fact, Greek is much more similar to
Sanskrit than to Hittite).

But I do agree with Renfrew that there's a striking similarity
between the expansion of Indo-European languages across Europe and
the expansion of agriculture across the same area.  It has to be
borne in mind, however, that this expansion was not entirely gradual
as Renfrew has it, but proceeded in several stages.  It is easy to
see how this came about: the Anatolian farmers, when they crossed
over into Greece, Bulgaria and southern parts of ex-Yugoslavia and
Romania, found circumstances similar to the ones they were used to in
Anatolia: basically hilly terrain and Mediterranean climate.  Further
north, in temperate Europe (Ukrainian and Hungarian steppe, North
European flatlands), conditions were quite different, and the
Mediterranean farming techniques simply did not work.  ...
>>>>>>>>>>>

Catal Hayuk in Anatolia is not the only site
where Agriculture originated. Mehrgarh in
Indus valley culture may have done it even earlier.
See Shaffer below. Mehrgarh has nothing to do with
IE languages.

Like Mehrgarh, the agriculturization of Europe
may have nothing to do with IE languages.
Found in the same region, Catal Hayuk
and Hittites got to be linked and have
been given too heavy weight to push back
IE origin dates by Renfrew and others.
Agriculture originates elsewhere also.
How do we account for Mehrgarh? Should
it be linked to the spread of agriculture
in Europe also?

The common vocabulary in IE for wheel
transport technology (ca. 3500 BC),
the Dnieper river boundary (ca. 3500 BC)
pointing to a linguistic boundary
puting IE in Pontic-Caspian area
argue for a late PIE breakup.

There is wide scholarly agreement
on IE myth/ritual/culture relations
even in historical times and need
not be abandoned.

Preliterate Africa had/s 1000s of languages
all in Bantu family. Dr. Vidal's post tells
me that Romance changed a lot even after
Writing. Romance languages would have
changed a lot further without the
communications revolution brought about
by increase in vehicles/mobility
and standardization and mutual intelligibility
from Roman script. IE languages innovate
faster (eg., compared to agglutinative Dravidian).

So, I think known IE innovation rates coupled
with less mobility and no writing
would argue for PIE fast reaching to observed
differences between Greek, Vedic and Hittite
in ca. 1500 B. C.

As far as PIE splitting up, 2000 years
appears sufficient where as 4000 years appears
rather very high. (Not to speak of 6000 or
8000 years before ca. 1500 BC. Just as
Sanskritized Indians say Rig Veda is
4000 BC or like Tamil nationalists say
Tolkaappiyam is 3000 BC)

Regards,
N. Ganesan

---------------------------------------------------

