Paired Horse and PIE breakup
On 6 Nov. H.M.Hubey wrote:
        How do you imagine it is possible for the "Soviet" scholars to
control Iranian studies in the world? Have you heard, by the way, that
the Soviet Union does not exist any more? And what is meant by the words
"Iranists control Turkic studies"? Does these words have any sense?
There are many (dozens, hundreds) of scholarly works in English on the
subject, see e.g. J.Harmatta. Studies in the language of the Iranian tribes in South
Russia. - "Acta Orientalia" Budapest, t.I (1951), pp. 261-314;  M.Rostovtzeff.
Iranians and Greeks in South Russia. Oxford, 1922; for the language of Eastern
Scythians - Sakas see fundamental works by H.W.Bailey and R.E.Emmerick, etc.).
But why are you going to limit yourselves with English sources only? If you
are ready to make a revolution in world linguistics and to prove that Scythian
language was not Iranian, how can you, being such a learned linguist, have any
difficulties at all with French or German? And then you will find another
hundred of titles in French (numerous works by G.Dumezil, E.Benveniste
and others) and German (e.g., works by J.Marquart). But I am sure that even
if you read all this it will not shake your belief that Scythians, together
with Sumerians and Etruscans, spoke (Proto-)Turkish.
    Olzhas Sulejmenov whom you refer to is no linguist, no historian, no
anthropologist; he is a talanted and well-known Kazakh poet, who tries since
the late 1970-ies in a diletant's way to prove the identity of Proto-Turks
with Sumerians and exceptional role played by them in the world history.
I don't know who are Tuna and Miziev, but if I may judge from your references
to their works they belong to the same genre of nationalistic "science"-fiction.
         A dozen years ago a Russian ultra-patriotic writer made similar
discovery. He is absolutely sure that the word "Etruscan" means simply
"Eto - russkij", that is: "This is a Russian". Why should not the
interested persons pay attention to this idea too?
        But not on this list. It is hightime, I think, for somebody to open,
let's say, "Nationalistic World history discussion club" (with the motto:
Nationalists of all nations, unite!). Let them all come
together there and decide in a friendly discussion, once and for all,
what nation did Adam belong to, what language did Eve speak.
Without us. We shall better stick to the problems of Indology.
        This is my best wish to us all,
                                        Ya.V.
Yaroslav V.Vassilkov, Ph.D.
Department of South and SE Studies
Institute of Oriental Studies
Dvortsovaya nab., 18,
St Petersburg, 191186,
Russia
Home address: Fontanka, 2,
kv. 617, St Petersburg,
191187, Russia
tel. +7 (812) 275 8179
e-mail: yavass at YV1041.spb.edu
