Paired Horse and PIE breakup
        I have started my answer to this question with the words:
And now Paul Kekai Manansala comments on it in this way:
        You would be probably right if I stopped at that. But in my letter
it was followed and supported with arguments which you omitted in your
quotation. I referred to the opinion of specialists, according to which the
Andronovo people most probably spoke Iranian, because the Scythians, who
are their cultural descencents, were surely Iranian-speaking people. You
doubt it, suggesting that the "Scythians" were rather Altaic or Uralic
people.
        Both Western (North Pontic) and Eastern (Saka) Scythians spoke
Iranian dialects which is attested by Greek and Indian written sources, by
etymology of place-names and so on. Uralians, with the only exception of
The Hungarians in the middle of the 1st century AD, were always forest
hunters, not the steppe pastoralists. The same may be said about proto-Turks
until 3rd century BC, when they came to the steppes from their forest
Siberian homeland. What could these peoples have in common with the problem
that we are now discussing: the emergence of the war-chariot in the western
part of the Eurasian steppe in the beginning of the 2-n mill. BC?
        The word "Turanian" goes back to the Iranian epic, where it is
used to designate the Eastern Iranian nomadic tribes. As far as I know,
the word has nothing in common with "Turk" and related words.
        What is the "hard evidence" of Scythian culture among "Altaic and
Uralic" tribes? Is there any evidence at all in favour of your point of
view that Scythian's language was not Iranian? Will you kindly present it,
it would be very interesting to learn what sources did you use.
        Best regards,
                                        Ya.V.
Yaroslav V.Vassilkov, Ph.D.
Department of South and SE Asian Studies
Institute of Oriental Studies
Dvortsovaya nab., 18,
St Petersburg, 191186,
Russia
Home address: Fontanka, 2,
kv. 617, St Petersburg,
191187, Russia
tel. +7 (812) 275 8179
e-mail: yavass at YV1041.spb.edu
