Sanskrit plays on European stages (and elsewhere)
Dear Folks,
	The enlargement of the original question will allow wider
responses.  It is not an uncommon event to see Sanskrit plays staged in
Sanskrit in India.  Long since I was in college in Pune (around 1962), the
state government of Maharashtra annually sponsored staging of
drama-competitions in Marathi and Sanskrit.  Several groups from
Maharashtra participated in these annual competitions.  I myself acted in
SvapnavAsavadatta, ZAkuntala, and MAlavikAgnimitra, and our group from the
Fergusson College in Pune won second prizes.  Besides staging classical
dramas, the Bombay competitions also attracted modern Sanskrit dramas.  I
personally wrote two small plays, one on the life of the Marathi saint
JnAnezvara and another on the life of RAmazAstri, a judge from the Peshwah
period.  Both of these were presented on stage by a junior high-school
group from Pune and won first prizes.  Pune alone often had several groups
participating in these drama competitions.  Around 1964, there was a
celebration of the completion of 50 (?) years of German-teaching in Pune,
and a group of us staged the whole of ZAkuntalam on stage in German.  Pune
also has a tradition of staging Sanskrit translations of Shakespeare's
dramas.  Professor S.D. Joshi's Sanskrit translation of Hamlet was staged
in Pune around 1980.  This is an important area and someone could do a
comprehensive study.  There are similar activities in Bombay, Madras etc.
An important place to mention is the Vikram University at Ujjain.  There
is an annual Kalidasa festival, and among the regular activities of this
festival is staging of Sanskrit plays by groups from all over India.  
	The Marathi rendering of ZAkuntala by Mr. Annasaheb Kirloskar
around 1880 is the beginning of modern Marathi musical dramas.  To my
knowledge, this was the first time in Maharashtra that a classical drama
in translation was presented to larger audiences.
	The staging of Sanskrit dramas or dramatized versions of Sanskrit
based stories especially in dance-drama format is common even among the
Indian immigrant populations in the US.  In Detroit, I and my wife,
Shubhangi, have participated in the Kathak based versions of MeghadUta and
ZAkuntala, and a BharatanATyam based version of KumArasambhava.  We also
staged a dance-drama version of Nala-DamayantI story.  Such efforts are
seen in many other places in North American Indian communities.
					Madhav Deshpande
On Fri, 13 Nov 1998, Jean-Luc CHEVILLARD wrote:
