Indian children born abroad -- some (more) clarifications
I don't want to start bickering here, but some clarifications of my post
are in order.
Ashish Chandra (AC) made some comments on my post. I am trying to answer
them here.
-Partha Banerjee
(AC)>It is indeed unfortunate that people who claim to be in the center
actually
The author of the following mail, i.e., me, was a longtime active member of
RSS, and its offshoot groups. So, when someone lime me attacks the
so-called Sangh Parivar, that shows some objectivity. I am not the one who
resorts to mudslinging. Of course, an abviously avid pro-RSS, pro-VHP
person like AC wouldn't admit. That's okay.
I would again ask AC and others to read my newly-published book on RSS
which is almost a personal diary on the Sangh Parivar written by an ex-RSS
member for 15+ years.
(AC)>Some points of clarification would be in order. HSC is NOT Shiv Sena. If
I put Shiv Sena under parenthesis to distinguish this group from HSC which
is a direct offshoot of RSS and VHP. A VHP/RSS member founded HSC in
America. But VHP and RSS have direct connections with Shiv Sena, and recent
vandalism in India on the issue of the controversial film Fire was done by
both Shiv Sena and VHP (actually, VHP doesn't admit, but Bajrang Dal, a
direct offshoot of VHP was involved in the vandalism, along with Shiv Sena)
And we all know about the VHP's role in the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992.
In 1992 December, and in January 1993, BJP (a sister organization of VHP)
and Shiv Sena began a series of communal riots in Bombay that killed many
people mostly poor Muslims. An independent judiciary commission (Shri
Krishna Commission) found BJP and Shiv Sena guilty (the report was finally
released, reluctantly, by the central BJP government and the local
Maharashtra government). No action has been taken against them.
(AC)>I don't think I understand the following statement :
(AC)>VHP does not want to admit here in America that it is a DIRECT offshoot of
This is a common ploy used by the Sangh Parivar and we have discussed it
many times before on various forums. RSS/VHP's concept of India being one
nation is a
concept based on prevarication and distortion of Indian history and
Hinduism. We have MANY examples where RSS leaders such as Golwalkar talked
about Muslims, Christians, and communists to be "enemies" of the so-called
Indian nation a la RSS. Golwalkar (the most well-known RSS chief now
deceased) and the late Savarkar, who was the mentor of Gandhi-killer
Nathuram Godse, spoke of India and Hindutva in a fascistic way. Presently,
Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray's rhetorics are in those lines.
By the way, we know that Godse was an RSS member. That would be enough
reason for someone like me to quit RSS. There are other reasons too.
And BJP and RSS and VHP have strong ties, political and social, with Shiv Sena.
If you want quotes from Golwakar, Savarkar, and other right-wing leaders,
we can post some. We have posted them before, but still...
(AC)>VHP has been in the US for over 20 years now. It is an independent
Here is another trick. VHP in America never admits openly that it was
floated in India by RSS and the fact that since its inception, it has been
found guilty of communal troubles the Babri Masjid demolition episode being
just one of them. VHP in America or Europe has a very different and naive
look. People don't know what's in there behind the mask.
(AC)>Shiv Sena has nothing to do with VHP even remotely. As for the people not
I have been keeping close touch with VHP activities in USA and Europe.
American and European children of Indian origin DO NOT know the connection
of RSS, BJP, VHP, and HSC. And they are fed with a very distorted kind of
Hinduism. And then, why Hindu children only? Why not invite Muslim children
or Christian children or other children of South Asian origin at
VHP/RSS/HSC gatherings?
Or, are they considered "enemies" here too?
(AC)>Look, the original theme was that Indian children here don't wish to go to
If the children feel alienated, it's because of the reason that capitalist
systems make people alienated -- adults and children alike. "American"
children are alienated too. Look at them. Many come from broken families.
Many are blacks, or other minorities. Colored minorities have additional
problems.  But in spite of that, many South Asian children are fitting very
well with their white American counterpart. It is the conservative mindset
of most Indian immigrants that make them feel not at par. These parents
wouldn't let them go out with white American kids, not to say anything
about poor or specially black kids. The same mindset that keeps out Muslims
or "lower castes" in India. It's a false consciousness and comes out of a
rigid class- and caste-based structure in India.  Girls are taught
different values than boys, in most immigrant families. There are many
other problems. All this makes the child alienated.
The panacea however is not Hindutva. If there is any panacea, it's a
progressive thought process. Just like the Christian Coalition with its
separatist and isolationist right-wing Christian agenda can't solve the
problems of white America, the Sangh Parivar can't do it for
Indian-American kids or Indian-European kids.
Let's face it. Dogmatic religion only makes the situation worse.
