From abbas at IOPB.RES.IN  Sat Dec  5 18:31:54 1998
From: abbas at IOPB.RES.IN (Samar Abbas)
Date: Sat, 05 Dec 98 13:31:54 -0500
Subject: Against Aryan Invasions
In-Reply-To: <19981204203649.14299.qmail@hotmail.com>
Message-ID: <161227043347.23782.15879361644207262955.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Bapa,
  You have questioned the relevance of my repost of Ved Acharya's article.
Ved Acharya's views are NOW BEING TAUGHT IN INDIAN SCHOOLS. Yes,
- "Homer and Shakespeare copied Sanskrit classics" is now taught in UP
   schools, and forms part of the syllabus
- "Germans and Anglo-Saxons are emigrants from the Indus Valley." is also
   taught to kids.
- "Out-of-Africa is wrong, the Aryans evolved in India" is also taught.
- "Dravidian and Indo-European languages are derived from Sanskrit" are
   also taught.

  These were recently introduced into the syllabi of UP schools, and an
attempt is being made to introduce these teachings into all Indian
textbooks. If this hadn't been the case, I would never have posted the
message. Yes, NEVER. This was the backdrop to my post, and it should be
evident, since you are the only one complaining about its relevancy,
that most list members `got the message' the first time around. Please
note that I am not condemning or supporting this, I just brought these to
the attention of list members.

    I however stand by the following statments:
- " What Ved Acharya has explicitly stated, is implicit in many serious
   indological theories"
- " What Ved Acharya has said, is believed in by the majority of
    Indo-Aryans."

    Please note that it is just a small step from saying that
`All Indo-European languages are derived from Sanskrit' to
`All IE languages are degraded from Sanskrit'.

  I did not say anything against these notions, I just stated them. If you
do not accept them, please say so, rather than blaming me. Surely
what is being taught in Indian schools is relevant to Indology, because
the next generation of Indians are going to hold to these ideas. I only
brought this to the attention of the list members, it is up to them to
accept this or not.

  Ved Acharya differs only slightly from what serious indologists say, eg.
while Indigenous Indologists claim that Aryans evolved from apes in India
instead of Africa (implicit in their arguments), he holds that Brahma
created the Aryans. He also points out that Out of Africa is against the
Indigenous Aryan model; the Aryans in this case came from Africa and all
other theories (incl. the usual Central Asian origin) are out the window.
This is again relevant since there was some discussion on this list as to
whether linguistics or archaeology was more relevant. The fact is, it may
actually be genetics which finally decides the question.

Some more replies are below:

On Fri, 4 Dec 1998, Bapa Rao wrote:

> The Indology list charter says that the list is for discussions among
> practicing indology scholars, and others are welcome to read, but are
> definitely discouraged from posting.

You are implying that I have violated the charter for the indology list.
First, let me clear myself:

- I have not indulged in any personal attacks on this list. Many others
  have and one need only follow the thread `Vicious Debate' to see what
  kind of attacks are made. One can also read the replies to my posts to
  see how `vicious' people can be. I, for my part, have never referred to
  any body on this list, and have never attacked any person.

- I have only posted articles of relevance to the discussions going on.
  The thread on Urdu was not started by me, as you can check by going to
  the archives. It arose out of a discussion of the number of speakers of
  that language, which necessarily bears on its origin. I also did not
  start the thread on Aryan Invasions. The debate was going on, so I
