Horse breeding in India
Yaroslav V. Vassilkov wrote in Indology:
horse-breeding
On  Tue, 31 Mar 1998, Vidyanatha Rao replied:
<<<
In Jan/Feb 97, there was a discussion in this list about the alleged
difficulty of breeding horses in India. In spite of confident assertions
of such difficulty, attributed to the climate, horse-breeding (of local
breeds, naturally, not of thorough-breds:-) was alive and well in India,
including Central India and parts of the peninsula, as attested by one
of the references I gave.
    Dr. V. Rao's references are by the British in
    colonial days. British had less problems in horse
    breeding due to advances in vetenary sciences, etc.,
    But Indians always had trouble breeding horses.
    Arab settlers on the Kerala coast sold horses
    brought by sea.
    Pre-3rd century AD Pattin2appAlai tells:
    "nIrin2 vanta nimir parip puraviyum"
     - horses that came via the sea waters.
    In Sangam classical texts, princes have
    horses and people were awed by their speed.
    Major portion MaanikkavAcakar (9th century)
    revolves around going to the West coast
    to purchase horses for the Pandyan army.
    Peacocks are SubrahmaNya-Murukan's vAhana.
    After Muslims were employed as horse trainers
    and riders in Vijayanagar armies, ArunagirinAthar
    calls Murukan as the Peacock riding Rahout
    in 14th century (mayil ERu rAvuttan2 - tiruppukaz).
    Portugese residents at Vijayanagar have kept
    accounts of the number of horses bought every year.
    I have seen some references on this horse trade
    across the sea. My books, notes are in the boxes,
    I will post the references some day.
    Definitely, India has trouble breeding horses
    until the British arrived.
    Any data on horse imports in Mauryan, Gupta
    and Moghul periods?
    Regards,
    N. Ganesan
Yaroslav V. Vassilkov wrote:
of
On  Tue, 31 Mar 1998, Vidyanatha Rao replied:
[...] <<<
The ``articles of metal harness'' seem to be, for the most part, bits,
often snaffle bits, and in one case a curb bit. Now Hellenistic writers
clearly state that bits were unknown to Indians, presumably at the time
of Alexander.
  Arrian's writing on horse bits was given by Prof. Witzel.
  Even if the small book by Arrian does not tell us of 'bits',
  it just may mean that he missed the 'bits'.
  Regards,
  N. Ganesan
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
