'Siva and Avalokitezvara
Dear Sri. N. Ganesan,
from your many messages on the above topic I should like to quote:
What is so queer about a bahuvrIhi "svaro 'valokito yena sa" (he by whom
the sound has been perceived)?
But ava-lok- usually does not mean "to look down", but "to look at,
perceive". One could object, of course, that sound and the root ava-lok-,
to see, perceive, do not fit together. But didn't the Vedic RSis see (paz-)
the Veda, which is sound? See about this subject J. Gonda, The Vision of
the Vedic poets. And svara, meaning more specifically the Vedic accent,
would indeed point into the direction of the god Brahman, whose chief wife
was the goddess svarA (for reference see Shabdakalpadruma) so that (if the
myth is old enough, which by no means is certain)  avalokitasvara might
also mean "He by whom svarA has been looked at/perceived". See also the
compound svarabrahman, "brahman as manifested in sound: the sacred texts",
BhAgavatapurANa (see Monier-Williams). And for the Buddhists such a
compound with -svara in the end, preceded by a ppp. would probably not
sound peculiar, see e.g. the name of a Bodhisattva in Gandavyuha 4.9:
sAgaranigarjitasvara (acc. to Edgerton's Buddhist Hybrid Skt. Dict.).
If avalokitasvara, as Lokesh Chandra has made probable, is a further
development of brahman, you cannot expect that the two are mentioned
together.
  Concerning the form avalokita-Izvara, this compund, on the other hand,
looks more odd to me. Because almost all compounds having Izvara as the
second member are genitive tatpurushas, like  gaNezvara, nandIzvara,
yogezvara etc. But what should *avalokitasya/avalokitAnAm Izvara mean? Is
it not easier to assume that the name was changed (after the prestige of
the god Brahman had declined and 'Siva had risen to the most prominent
place) so that the name reminded more of this latter god? Because Izvara
like Iza are indeed often used to designate 'Siva.
If you are firmly determined not to give up your theory of the *original*
identity of avalokitezvara and ziva (do I understand you right?), you can,
of course, follow this idea of KumArajIva delinking the zaivite connection
which than later on was restored by Hsuan Tsang - to me it sounds a bit
far-fetched.
To solve the problem of the seeming incompatibilty of the cruel Vedic god
and the benign South-Indian 'Siva = avalokitezvara, there are probably more
than one way to go. What about the following (not very original or
idiosyncratic, I hope) sketch: Let us assume there was a Great (and benign)
God (mahAdeva) in the (linguistically Dravidian?) IVC. And the later
South-Indian god 'Siva would be a direct successor of this ancient god.
When the Aryans arrived (I am stubborn enough to keep to the Aryan invasion
theory), they identified their (rather cruel) god Rudra with this native
mahAdeva, because 1) both were regarded as powerful and 2) the dreaded god
Rudra was not a participant of the Vedic sacrifice and could therefore more
easily be identified with a god of non-Vedic origin than any other god they
brought with them. When Buddhism arrived in South India, the popular
bodhisattva avalokitasvara could without major difficulties be adapted to
the benign South-Indian god 'Siva (dakSiNamUrti).
   We all have to invent our models of understanding the hard, chaotic, and
unstructured reality (like archaeological finds, text-fragments from
Central Asia and so on).
   Is this model still far away from yours?
Best regards,
Georg v. Simson
