'Siva and Avalokite'svara
To add a bit to the 'siva / avalokite'svara fray, I though I would send in
the following draft translation of the *Sarvaj~namahe'svarastotra*  of
Udbha.t.tasiddhisvaamin  (Mtho btsun grub rjes, possibly also known as
Mudgaragomin).  
According to my notes, I prepared the translation below from the Derge
edition of the Tibetan canon, bstod tshogs ka 42b5-43b3 (Tibetan
Translation attributed to Jalandhara and Rin chen bzang po). I am obliged
to say "according to my notes" because I prepared this translation some ten
years ago, and I can scarcely remember the details of my efforts. My notes
indicate that this draft is deliberately somewhat literal, and that a few
lines (i.e., those marked with asterisks=*) were particularly baffling to
me. Unfortunately, I do not have immediate access to the aforementioned
Tibetan translation, so I cannot check my translation (perhaps someone else
could post it?).
Despite the provisional nature of the translation, I think you will find
the stotra rather interesting, since it offers what may amount to an
explicit equation of Avalokite'svara and Mahe'svara.
Naturally, I would welcome anyone who could identify Sanskrit fragments or
formulae that might correspond to the Tibetan.
Yours,
John
*********
Homage to the three jewels!
He is the god of gods (devaatideva), 
The guru of the gods,
The guru of gurus--
In him I seek refuge.
He has such  greatness,
Might and lordliness,
Yet he is free from the three worlds--
Homage to the Great Lord (mahe'svara)
With the blaze of wisdom's fire 
He incinerated the triple city
Whose nature is  desire and confusion --
I bow to him who burned the triple city.
He always bears the skull of love,
And he is smeared with the ashes of compassion;
The moon of morality ('siila) adorns his head--
I bow to that Great Lord.
The great lord rides on the Mahaayaana bull
Whose horns are love and compassion
And whose eyes are joy and equanimity;
In this way he travels with his wives-
Generosity, morality, patience,
Perseverance, meditation and such --
With the host (ga.na) and the foremost,
Homage to that Great Lord.
His curved horns are all pervasive;
His blazing gaze has burned
*the wild son of existence (bhavaatmaja)  who [compells beings]
*To go onward into the midst of afflicted sa.msaara.
*He has a mind suitable to a cemetery
*and a form (ruupa) of various emanations (nirmaa.na);
*He is alway embraced by the one with the host;
Homage to that Great Lord.
Due to the three worlds' desire,
He destroyed yearning; through accomplishing 
His instruction there is no sa.msaara;
Homage to that Great Lord.
He keeps the eight-fold precepts
And accompanied by Ga.nanapati, the miracles' support (.rddhipaada) ,
He, completely pure, shattered the door
Of the land of Mahaabhaya ;
He holds the river of the dharma
In which flows the waters of compassion:
Homage to that Great Lord.
With his trident of wisdom
He pierced the demon of ignorance
Who had terrified all the world --
He is the Great Lord.
