pot for the duration of the ritual?.From the foregoing the relation of the
potters with one of the AmnAyas becomes acceptable." Unfortunately, I do not
have Schoterman's book. So I cannot give the Kosambi references. Even here,
the brahmin may indeed have been considered to be a brahmin. But the name
seems to betray his intended cultural origins. Also  my research has shown
that the past status of potters has been severely underestimated. The valuable
Tamil epigraphical data reveal that they were the chief accountants of major
orthodox brahminic temples in Tamilnadu such as the one at tiruvArUr.

The ambiguity in brahmin-potter relationship brought out in the ghaTIkArasutta
in majjhima-nikAya is also very interesting. (I. B. Horner's translations are
given in quotes.) In this story, "in the village township of vebhaLiGga, the
potter named ghaTIkAra was a supporter-the chief supporter-of the Lord
Kassapa" and "a brahman youth named jotipAla was a friend - dear friend - of
the potter ghaTIkAra."  In the story, in his enthusiasm to encourage the
brahmin to visit Lord Kassapa, the potter youth first "laid hold of the
brahman youth by the waist-band" and spoke. Later he "having laid hold of the
brahman youth by the hair - he had just performed an ablution of his head -
spoke. Then it occurred to the brahmin that if the potter ghaTIkAra , being of
lowly birth, should grab his hair after he had performed an ablution of the
head, the intended visit must have been significant. The potter does not have
any hesitation in touching the brahmin. The brahmin does not openly criticize
the potter for touching him. It seems as though the social separation of
brahmins from potters had not been completed at the time. The Mahabharata
episode where the pANDavas disguised as brahmins staying in a potter's house
also seems to reflect this. Compare this with the view of zankara (who comes
after a millennium)who, in trying to prove that janazruti could not have been
a zUdra, says that only persons of the same varNa can be mentioned together.
He says, "For as a rule equals are mentioned together with equals."
(Commentary on Vedanta Sutra 1.3.35)

Another thing to note is that the personal names of both characters in
ghaTIkArasutta seem to be nothing but descriptive of their castes (ghaTIkAra -
maker of pots and jotipAla - protector, keeper of fire, i.e., brahmin). If a
similar pattern were to be assumed in the MPS story, then the name
dhUmrasagotra/doNa would indicate the ancestral calling of the brahmin which
would have been that of a potter. I do not think the relationship between the
potter scribes and brahmins of 13th century Tamilnadu was very different from
the one we find in ghaTIkArasutta. The only thing is Tamil society has
preserved the original high status of the potter for a much longer time than
other parts of India.

Can we say that, comparatively speaking, the Pali texts seem to be more
descriptive of the real society at the time than the Sanskrit texts which seem
to be more prescriptive of what an "ideal" society they wished for?

Regards
S. Palaniappan




