From achandra at WNMAIL.WNDEV.ATT.COM  Wed Dec 23 16:49:33 1998
From: achandra at WNMAIL.WNDEV.ATT.COM (Ashish Chandra)
Date: Wed, 23 Dec 98 11:49:33 -0500
Subject: Kamban's Aryan
Message-ID: <161227043995.23782.1628434733038899050.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

N.Ganesan wrote :

In the semiticization of Hinduism (missions got started from Vivekananda's
sishyas. In the desperate search for an equivalent to Bible and Quran,
Hindus found their answer in Gita. In the constructs of Indian nationalism,
Gita plays a larger role in the last century or so. But TirukkuRaL of
Tiruvalluvar is much more egalitarian and secular compared to Bhagavad
Gita)

____

Couple of questions Dr. Ganesan,

1. What does the term "semiticization of Hinduism" mean and how have
Vivekananda and Ramakrishna missions promoted it ? Could you provide
instances ?

2. As far as I understood the term "In the desperate search for an
equivalent to Bible and Quran, Hindus found their answer in Gita. In the
constructs of Indian nationalism, Gita plays a larger role in the last
century or so", what you are trying to say is that there was no one single
Hindu text that was given utmost importance but several, and, that it is
because Hindus wanted an equal for the Bible and Quran, they(Hindus)
adopted the Gita as the most important of Hindu books. Is that your purport
? If yes, then I don't know if that has emerged from the need for having a
"Holy Book" like the Christians and the Muslims. On what basis do you base
this conclusion ? Also, as far as I know, the Bhagvatgita is a Smriti text
and not a Shruti. Smriti is available to general society whereas the
Shrutis were only to be heard by the Sannyasis. Out of the Smritis that
were available to the general public (non-Sannyasis), the Bhagvatgita has
been historically the prime Hindu scripture although it is a part of the
Mahabharata written by Rshi Ved Vyas. I don't think I have any proof that
BG was the most important text but that has been the historical view in
Hindu society. It is another thing to say that the Christians have the
Bible, the Muslims the Qoran and the Hindus the Bhagvat Gita. This is an
incorrect interpretation to the importance Hindus accord to BG and this
should not be construed as meaning that "semiticization" has been
introduced.

What are your thoughts on this ?

Thanks
Ashish




