  posted something I thought relevant. From the replies, the list also
  thought them relevant, maybe unconventional.
- The only theory I supported was the Ghaznavid Urdu model. Even here I
  never used any personal attacks, but only attacked the models.
  I never said anything in support or against Aryan Invasions. I just
  reposted somthing which was posted to usenet. I have seen less relevant
  posts on this list.
They are not revisionist; they were the views held by Prof. E.C.Sachau,
a highly distinguished scholar, almost 100 years ago. He was of the
opinion that Urdu originated in the Ghaznavid camps.
 It has also gained a kind of quasi-acceptance, if you read the replies
carefully. It goes against what is taught, but is logical. Being
unconventional, people are unwilling to accept it in public.
 I invite you to come up with scientific evidence against what I have said
about Urdu. I have given my references, and more importantly, the facts. I
invite you to do the same. As I have said, what I have stated in
unconventional.
 Should I understand such `precautions' would involve some complaints to
my `colleagues' and `instructors' ?
  You state that you think I have violated the Indology charter. So do you
now imply that I should be removed from the list ? If so, please state so
explicitly.
This is important, Indology is a vast field conering History, Archaeology,
Anthropology (and thus Genetics, Molecular Biology etc.) and many other
fields (Mathematics, etc.) which at first sight are not related to
Indology, but every worker in the field must know. So postings should
involve crisp to-the-point `facts' rather than long philiosophical
discussions. Thus the indigenous Aryan theory has a bearing on evolution,
genetics, etc. which was not evident from the other more factual and
detailed discussions.
  ^^^^^^^^^^^
 You can verify that Ved Acharya actually posted the message at the date I
had given to the newsgroups by going to http://www.dejanews.com. (In case
your statement may be misunderstood that they represent my opinions).
 You raise an objection that Ved Acharya is not an `Indologist'. That is
true, but if he isn't, why are the books of many other religious leaders
constantly quoted ? I don't want to give any names.
People constantly quote from books that are published
by people who have links to religious organizations. So what is wrong if I
post an article posted by a religious person ? If my posting was not
serious, then what about theirs ? The views aired by Ved Acharya are
spread into millions of ears every day and are implicitly held ny many
serious indologists. Moreover, he has raised serious
questions which were not answered on this list before.
WHY VED ACHARYA IS A GOOD SUMMARY
A good summary because he touches on anthropology, genetics, evolution
etc. Many revisionists have left out large blanks in their works, such as
what they feel about evolution, Out-of-Africa etc. Ved acharya has done
that. He may sound mad, but he leaves no blanks.
Samar
