I would like to quote a line or two that was posted recently in Indology.
"strictly speaking, scientific models do not include God.
They only deal with what can be studied systematically and explained in
natural terms. God is beyond the reach of science, which can neither
prove nor disprove his existence."
I agree with the above. I have no problems with those who believe in God as
long as they don't want to impose their God on us.
Having said that, it is no surprise that pro-RSS pro-VHP/BJP scholars are
so disturbed by our exposure of their much-beloved "respected religious"
groups. In my above post, I have said *nothing* directly against the RSS
(in fact most of it covers Christian fundamentalists' views on evolution
and creation), but I have tried to point out some analogy amongst the
various rightist groups across religions.
I am no Sanskrit scholar (and we don't have to be one in order to fight
fascism and politics of religion), but I was trained as an evolution
biologist and systematist.  Manu, Parashar, the concepts of Kalpams or
Kalpas, the concept of Dasavatars, the great flood, etc. are Hindu
mythological stories that have allusion to the Hindu "theory" of creation
(or can we say, a disjunct or discontinuous mode of birth of the human and
other species). At least, they do not corroborate the theory of Darwinian
evolution that is based on scientific evidence, origin of species, and
natural selection.
Of course, Hindu stories are not the same as, say, a Christian version of
creation, however, we find analogous discourses. Creationists can also
justify racial and other such inequalities via their theory of ununiform
and/or disjunct modes of development of the human race. Here Hinduism is no
different at all when we see notions such as Brahmins and "upper castes" to
have been derived from the upper parts of God's body and the lowest parts
giving birth to the shudras. Is this evolution? Not by any stretch of
imagination.
I am not really against the puranic or vedic stories when it comes to
spiritualism. In fact, I like them a lot. But I have problems when they are
imposed on us with a connotation of supremacism and as scientific evidence.
Fundamentalist Hinduism, Christianity, Islam, Judaism, etc. are no
exception to this rule. This is what I wanted to say in my above post where
I quoted Tim Berra.
My 15 years with RSS, etc. has nothing to do with our present discussion.
-Partha
