=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_Brahmagupta's_Tantrapar=C4=ABk=E1=B9=A3=C4=81_in_Br=C4=81hmasphu=E1=B9=ADasiddh=C4=81nta?=
 Thanks for those additional resources.
Dean
    On Wednesday, January 6, 2021, 1:30:48 PM GMT+5:30, Agathe Keller via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:  
 Dear all,
A correction gently given to me off list by Eric Gurevitch, I conflated two books in my message
none of which have any translations of parts of chapter 11 of the BSS?
Subbarayappa and K. V. Sarma.Indian astronomy: a source-book, based primarily on Sanskrit texts. INSA, 1985.(which is on archive as others have noticed:?https://archive.org/details/in.ernet.dli.2015.205661/page/n3/mode/2up)
and
Sen and Shukla. ??History of astronomy in India??. New Delhi?: Indian National Science Academy,?1985, which is actually a the acts of a conference on Oriental Astronomy (https://archive.org/details/IndianAstronomyASourcebook)
And indeed astronomy and mathematics also had its sometimes quite harsh debates, one of which has been well chronicled by C. Minkowski in????The Pandit as Public Intellectual: The Controversy over Virodha or Inconsistency in the Astronomical Sciences??. In The Pandit: Traditional Scholarship in India. Edited by Axel Michaels. Delhi, Manohar, 2001:79-97,
?over the consistency of siddh?ntic cosmology vss puranic ones.?
In Chapter 21 of the BSS as explained by Pingree and Ikeyama, the debate is precisely over some of the points of that debate also in which Jain cosmology plays its part?
best
Agathe
Le 6 janv. 2021 ? 06:54, Dean Michael Anderson <eastwestcultural at yahoo.com> a ?crit :
Thanks Agathe and those who replied off-list.
My interest is less in the actual astronomical details as the fact that there was not universal agreement among the ancient scholars. In this particular case, it pertains to various claims about the beginning of Kali Yuga, although that just happened to catch my interest as one among many such similar questions.
As we have seen with the reaction against the existence of multiple versions of the Ramayana, there is a tendency in some quarters to ignore the diversity of opinions even within Hinduism, which I think is one of the things that makes India so fascinating.
Best,
Dean
On Wednesday, January 6, 2021, 1:42:06 AM GMT+5:30, Agathe Keller <kellera at univ-paris-diderot.fr> wrote:
Dear Dean,
I fear that there is no English Translation of the 11th chapter of the BSS. Colebrooke translated chapter 12 and 18, Setsuro Ikeyama, edited and translated into English Chapter 21 with P?th?daka?s commentary, and you can find also some parts of the BSS translated in Kim Plofker?s chapter called ? mathematics in India ? of a volume edited by Katz in 2007, but she skips over chapter 11. ?
I?m quite sure that S.N. Sen must have translated some parts of chapter 11 and discussed them, maybe in his?History of Astronomy in India, a source book he co-published with K. S. Shukla in 1985 published by the INSA of which I do not have an accessible copy (I think it is out of print, and I admit i?d love to have a pdf of this text if anybody has one of it).
I was told that among his many projects, M. Yano wanted to publish a manuscript of D. Pingree which contained an English? translation of the BSS, translation that M. Yano wanted to correct and enhance, but I?m not sure whether this publication is on its way or not.
Chapter 21 contains some criticism of ?ryabha?a (and of the Jains), by Brahmagupta expounded by P?th?daka for which then there is thus Setsuro?s translation. Pingree wrote indirectly and not too technically about these criticism in his 1983 article in the JAOS .
As for secondary litterature, a bit of Brahmagupta?s criticism is discussed also in?Bongard-Levin, Grigorij M. ???ryabha?a and Lok?yatas??.Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute 58 (1977): 69-77.
But maybe some colleagues working on the history of astronomy can help pinch in some additional references on this question?
best
Agathe
Ikeyama, Setsuro. Br?hmasphu?asiddh?nta (Ch. 21) of Brahmagupta with Commentary of P?th?daka, Critically Ed. with Eng. Tr. and Notes. Reprinted from IJHS [Indian journal of history of science] 38. 1-4 (2003). New Delhi, India: Indian National Comission for the History of Science, Indian National Science Academy, 2003.
Pingree, David. ??Brahmagupta, Balabhadra, P?th?daka and Al-B?r?n??? Journal of JAOS 103, no 2 (1983): 353?60.
Plofker, Kim. ??Mathematics in India??. In The Mathematics of Egypt, Mesopotamia, China, India and Islam. A Sourcebook., ?dit? par Victor J. Katz, 385?514. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 2007.
Le 5 janv. 2021 ? 16:11, Dean Michael Anderson via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> a ?crit :
Thanks! I would greatly appreciate the photos of just the English pages. If I need to go deeper, I can try to find the originals.
Yes, my first name is Dean and my middle name is Michael. Actually, you just solved a mystery for me: why I am occasionally called Michael. People must assume it's the academic title. Dean is a not uncommon name in the US ... regardless of educational qualifications. In fact, sometimes I wonder if there's notgenerally an inverse correlation. :-)
Best,
Dean
On Tuesday, January 5, 2021, 8:31:36 PM GMT+5:30, jmdelire via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote: 
Dear Michael (or is Dean also your name ?),
I have at my disposal a discussion of the 11th chapter in an edition of 
the BSS by "A Board of Editors headed by ACHARYAVARA RAM SWARUP SHARMA, 
Chief Editor and Director of the Indian Institute of Astronomical and 
Sanskrit Research" in 1966. The edition is accompanied by the Vasana, 
Vijnana and Hindi Commentaries. Are you interested by a scan, or rather 
photos because the (bulky) book is uneasy to scan. I also have the 
edition (without translation nor discussion) by M.S.Dvivedin, Banaras, 
1902.
Best regards,
J.M.Delire,
Lecturer on Science and Civilization of India - Sanskrit Texts, IHEB 
(University of Brussels, Belgium)
Le 04.01.2021 08:07, Dean Michael Anderson via INDOLOGY a ?crit?:
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info(where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
