Dear Dean,
I fear that there is no English Translation of the 11th chapter of the BSS. Colebrooke translated chapter 12 and 18, Setsuro Ikeyama, edited and translated into English Chapter 21 with P?th?daka?s commentary, and you can find also some parts of the BSS translated in Kim Plofker?s chapter called ? mathematics in India ? of a volume edited by Katz in 2007, but she skips over chapter 11.
I?m quite sure that S.N. Sen must have translated some parts of chapter 11 and discussed them, maybe in his History of Astronomy in India, a source book he co-published with K. S. Shukla in 1985 published by the INSA of which I do not have an accessible copy (I think it is out of print, and I admit i?d love to have a pdf of this text if anybody has one of it).
I was told that among his many projects, M. Yano wanted to publish a manuscript of D. Pingree which contained an English  translation of the BSS, translation that M. Yano wanted to correct and enhance, but I?m not sure whether this publication is on its way or not.
Chapter 21 contains some criticism of ?ryabha?a (and of the Jains), by Brahmagupta expounded by P?th?daka for which then there is thus Setsuro?s translation. Pingree wrote indirectly and not too technically about these criticism in his 1983 article in the JAOS .
As for secondary litterature, a bit of Brahmagupta?s criticism is discussed also in  Bongard-Levin, Grigorij M. ? ?ryabha?a and Lok?yatas ?. Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute 58 (1977): 69-77.
But maybe some colleagues working on the history of astronomy can help pinch in some additional references on this question?
best
Agathe
Ikeyama, Setsuro. Br?hmasphu?asiddh?nta (Ch. 21) of Brahmagupta with Commentary of P?th?daka, Critically Ed. with Eng. Tr. and Notes. Reprinted from IJHS [Indian journal of history of science] 38. 1-4 (2003). New Delhi, India: Indian National Comission for the History of Science, Indian National Science Academy, 2003.
Pingree, David. ? Brahmagupta, Balabhadra, P?th?daka and Al-B?r?n? ? Journal of JAOS 103, no 2 (1983): 353?60.
Plofker, Kim. ? Mathematics in India ?. In The Mathematics of Egypt, Mesopotamia, China, India and Islam. A Sourcebook., ?dit? par Victor J. Katz, 385?514. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 2007.
Le 5 janv. 2021 ? 16:11, Dean Michael Anderson via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> a ?crit :
Thanks! I would greatly appreciate the photos of just the English pages. If I need to go deeper, I can try to find the originals.
Yes, my first name is Dean and my middle name is Michael. Actually, you just solved a mystery for me: why I am occasionally called Michael. People must assume it's the academic title. Dean is a not uncommon name in the US ... regardless of educational qualifications. In fact, sometimes I wonder if there's not generally an inverse correlation. :-)
Best,
Dean
On Tuesday, January 5, 2021, 8:31:36 PM GMT+5:30, jmdelire via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Dear Michael (or is Dean also your name ?),
I have at my disposal a discussion of the 11th chapter in an edition of
the BSS by "A Board of Editors headed by ACHARYAVARA RAM SWARUP SHARMA,
Chief Editor and Director of the Indian Institute of Astronomical and
Sanskrit Research" in 1966. The edition is accompanied by the Vasana,
Vijnana and Hindi Commentaries. Are you interested by a scan, or rather
photos because the (bulky) book is uneasy to scan. I also have the
edition (without translation nor discussion) by M.S.Dvivedin, Banaras,
1902.
Best regards,
J.M.Delire,
Lecturer on Science and Civilization of India - Sanskrit Texts, IHEB
(University of Brussels, Belgium)
Le 04.01.2021 08:07, Dean Michael Anderson via INDOLOGY a ?crit :
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info<mailto:indology-owner at list.indology.info> (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info <http://listinfo.indology.info/> (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
