From eviatar.shulman at mail.huji.ac.il  Tue Feb 23 07:00:15 2021
From: eviatar.shulman at mail.huji.ac.il (Eviatar Shulman)
Date: Tue, 23 Feb 21 09:00:15 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Job Announcement: a new position in Buddhist Studies at the Hebrew University
Message-ID: <CAGPpahiS8VgzeOwkK-bSFfXrjURbAss5ksvX7X=4uU=BP+ZFwg@mail.gmail.com>

Dear colleagues,

I am happy to announce the new position in Buddhist Studies at the
University.
Please see the announcement below.
With best wishes,
Eviatar Shulman



The Faculty of the Humanities at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem invites
applications for the Khyentse Lectureship/Professorship in Buddhist
Studies, a tenure-track position (open rank) in Buddhist Studies, with a
preference for Tibetan Buddhism. The position is funded through the
generous support of Khyentse Foundation, and is designed to be situated in
the Department of Comparative Religion, with the possibility of a joint
appointment with the Department of Asian Studies or other relevant
departments, depending on the chosen candidate?s intellectual profile.

The position is open to all candidates who have attained a Ph.D. degree,
and to advanced doctoral students who expect to be granted their Ph.D. no
later than June 30, 2021.

*Job requirements:*

Responsibilities include the teaching of required and elective courses in
the candidate?s field(s) of specialization (at the B.A. and M.A. degree
levels). Successful candidates are expected to conduct independent and
original research at the highest academic level, demonstrate academic
leadership, compete for Israeli and international research grants, and
should display an ability to work cooperatively with colleagues in the
Faculty of Humanities and the university at large.

The Hebrew University?s primary language of instruction is Hebrew. However,
the possibility of teaching courses in English will be available.
Candidates whose Hebrew proficiency is such that they would not be
comfortable teaching in Hebrew will be encouraged to sufficiently master
the language during the initial years following their appointment.

Qualified candidates will be invited for a campus visit, which will include
a job talk, an interview and meetings with department members. Given the
current situation, campus visits are expected to take place on Zoom.

For further details, please contact the Dr. Eviatar Shulman, Head of the Search
Committee, at eviatar.shulman at mail.huji.ac.il.

Completed applications must be submitted by April 6, 2021

Detailed instructions regarding the online submission of applications and
additional information can be found at the Faculty of the Humanities
website at - https://hum.huji.ac.il/applications-tenure-track-0

-- 
Dr. Eviatar Shulman
Senior Lecturer
Department of Religious Studies
Department of Asian Studies
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
http://www.cambridge.org/us/academic/subjects/religion/buddhism-and-eastern-religions/rethinking-buddha-early-buddhist-philosophy-meditative-perception


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20210223/30941b86/attachment.htm>

