[INDOLOGY] Re: Professor-researcher recruitment campaign EPHE
Dear colleagues,
All of this makes me wonder. Is this all that common any more? An
English
speaking scholar, in France, writing in French:
Ruegg, David Seyfort, Contributions ? l'histoire de la philosophie
linguistique
indienne. (Paris: De Boccard, 1959)
sot?riologie
et la gnos?ologie du buddhisme. (Paris: ?cole fran?aise D'Extr?me-
Orient, 1969)
Best, Richard
indology at list.indology.info>
[INDOLOGY] Re: Professor-researcher recruitment campaign EPHE
Mailer: Apple Mail (2.3445.8.2)
X-Spam-Score: 0.0
Dear colleagues,
Allow me to be in the discussion. I find it quite legitimate that the
EPHE, as a French ? Grand Etablissement ?, on the model of the ?
 Coll?ge de France ?, considers as a prerequisite a ? good active
mastery
 of French language ?. University is not meant for the comfort of the
Professors but that of the students. In France, a French speaking
country, if I have to recall what is sheer obviousness, classes are
delivered in French. 
On the basis of their outstanding skills and talents, the EPHE gladly
welcomes scholars who are not native French speakers, but a minimal
mastery of French is expected, which is meant to serve also the
comfort
 of the teachers themselves. Matthew Kapstein and Jan Houben, both
Directeurs d??tudes in the EPHE,  would certainly agree with my
assertion, as well as the many Italian researchers working in
different French academic institutions, including the EPHE.
And shall I remind you that some countries, if they do not officially
require a good mastery of their own language (which is not very
difficult for many of them, since both the applicant and the members
 of the election committee are English speakers), do apply the rule of
? National Preference ? (as is the case in Canada, for instance),
which is
not at all in use in French Universities, which consistently
 privilege scientific excellence, whatever the nationality?
Best wishes,
Lyne Bansat-Boudon
To unsubscribe send an email to indology-leave at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing
committee)http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your
list options or unsubscribe)
T +6433121699  M +64210640216  E rmahoney at indica-et-buddhica.org
IM https://t.me/rmahoney  W https://indica-et-buddhica.org/
Indica et Buddhica  Littledene  Bay Road  Oxford  NZ
