=?utf-8?Q?[INDOLOGY]__Location_of_P=C4=81=E1=B9=ADalika_of_Loka_Vibh=C4=81ga?=
According to Lewis Rice, Lokavibh?ga, a Jain Sanskrit work, possibly translated from Prakrit into Sanskrit, says it was copied in ?aka 380 (458 CE) in the 22nd year of Si?havarman, the lord of K??chi, by the Jain Muni Sarvanandin in the village named P??alika in the P??a-r???ra. According to Rice (EI, vol.14, p. 334), "P??alika, the village in which Sarvanandin made his copy, may be P??al?pura, in the South Arcot District. The Periya-pur??am makes it the seat of a large Jaina monastery in the 7th century. P??ar??h?ra is no doubt the territory of the B??a kings." 
The village called P??alika has been usually associated with Tirupp??irippuliy?r, a suburb of Cuddalore on the Tamil Nadu coast. Tamil P?tiri is the same as P??ali in Sanskrit. But we have another village called today as P??ir?ppuliy?r (near Mailam) approximately 60 km to the northwest. P?tirai in Tamil is a variant of P?tiri. Thus the present form P?tir?ppuliy?r could represent an ancient form P?tiraippuliy?r. This means P??alika could be P?tir?ppuliy?r too. ?Which one was it really? ?
Now we know that the ca. 6th century Va??e?uttu inscription (Early Tamil Epigraphy, 2003, pp. 471 and 629), which mentions the name of a Jain teacher from P???tu, is at Pa?aiya?pa??u near Aval?rp???tai and about 68 km to the northwest of P?tir?ppuliy?r. Ku?untokai 328 mentions a village called Ku?ump?r which was probably close to the territory of the P??ar, where a battle was being fought. ?I think the village of Ku?ump?r approximately 68 km north of P?tir?ppuliy?r and 13 km north of Vandavasi is probably the one mentioned in the poem. The attached Figure 1 shows the locations of P?tir?ppuliy?r, Pa?aiya?pa??u, and Ku?ump?r.
The attached picture shows the locations of Jain temples near the north central Tamil Nadu. Looking at the density of Jain sites, it is clear P?tir?ppuliy?r is right in the middle of them. But the Tirupp??irippuliy?r (Cuddalore) area hardly has any Jain sites. Certainly, what the Google map gives is the current picture. But the distribution of early Tamil inscriptions (2nd century BC- 6th century CE and most of them Jain) shows a similar concentration in this area as shown by Early Tamil Epigraphy Map 1 on p.34. 
Based on this, I propose that the location of P??alika from where Lokavibh?ga was copied is present day P?tir?ppuliy?r and that P????u mentioned in Akam 155 and the Pa?aiya?pa??u inscription and the P??a-r???ra mentioned in Lokavibh?ga should be located in the general area where P?tir?ppuliy?r, Pa?aiya?pa??u, and Ku?ump?r are located. 
While the area was known as P????u or P??a-r???ra from the time of Akam 155 to the 6th century, the P??ar rulers might have moved further north extending from northern Tamil Nadu into Telugu and Kannada regions by the 6th century. 
I welcome comments. 
Thanks in advance
Regards,
Palaniappan ?
