[INDOLOGY] Re: Question
Dear Madhav,
I second what Andrew says. I also recommend Karl Praust's 2004 paper
(reference below) on the development of the class IX presents. According to
Praust, the realization of /CnHC/ as [Cn?HC] in class IX presents was
avoided already in Proto-Indo-European in favor of [Cn?HC], with an
epenthetic vowel, in order that -n- be non-syllabic throughout the
inflectional paradigm, i.e. like the strong forms, which have the sequence
/CneHC/. In other words, there was analogical pressure to keep the *n* a
consonant, and the epenthetic vowel made that possible. The further
development to -n?- in Indic would then be the result of regular sound
change.
Praust cites the previous literature. Since then, there have been some
further discussions: Lipp 2009:392?4 n. 97; Yoshida 2013; K?mmel 2016; and
Gunkel 2018.
In my paper, I talk a bit about the development of the ? in class III
presents of the type m?m?te. The metrical evidence from the Rigveda
suggests that we should restore some forms with a short i, esp. *mimih?
(for transmitted mim?h?). jahima? 'we leave' is attested in the
Atharvaveda. Those show us the regular phonological development to short i
(in accordance with Jamison's foundational study). The long vowels there
are analogical, and I think it's attractive to have them be analogical to
the class IX presents. If we follow Praust, then the chronology works
nicely: the long ? in class IX would be in place early enough for that
analogy to take place.
Best,
Dieter
Gunkel, Dieter. 2018. Localization evidence for the restoration of Rigvedic
*mimihi 'measure'. In Vina Diem Celebrent: Studies in Linguistics and
Philology in Honor of Brent Vine, ed. Gunkel et al., 76?92. Ann Arbor:
Beech Stave.
K?mmel, Martin Joachim. 2016. ?Zur ?Vokalisierung? der Laryngale im
Indoiranischen.? In Sahasram Ati Srajas: Indo-Iranian and Indo-European
Studies in Honor of Stephanie W. Jamison ed. Gunkel et al., 216?26. Ann
Arbor: Beech Stave.
Lipp, Reiner. 2009. Die indogermanischen und einzelsprachlichen Palatale im
Indoiranischen. Vol. 2, Thorn-Problem, indoiranische Laryngalvokalisation.
Heidelberg: Winter.
Praust, Karl. 2004. ?Zur historischen Beurteilung von griech. ?????, der
altindischen 9. Pr?sensklasse und zur Frage grundsprachlicher
?ni-Pr?sentien?.? In Artes et Scientiae: Festschrift f?r Ralf-Peter Ritter
zum 65. Geburtstag, ed. Peter Anreiter, Marialuise Haslinger, Heinz Dieter
Pohl, and Helmut Winberger, 369?90. Vienna: Praesens.
Yoshida, Kazuhiko. 2013. ?The weak affix -n?- in Sanskrit ninth class
presents.? M?nchener Studien zur Sprachwissenschaft 67:65?77.
On Mon, Mar 15, 2021 at 3:40 PM Andrew Ollett <andrew.ollett at gmail.com>
wrote:
