[INDOLOGY] World Sanskrit Conference 2022 - announcement on 1 July
Dear Friends,
I am writing to you on behalf of the National Organising Committee of the World Sanskrit Conference 2022. We hope that you, your family and your circle of friends and colleagues are in good health.  We would like to express our deep concern for those of you especially in India, North America, Europe and wherever else the pandemic has hit hardest.
So many colleagues have kindly expressed concern for the future of the World Sanskrit Conference 2022. We truly appreciate the messages of collegiality and support that we have received from all over the world. As the rescheduled WSC is now only nine months away, colleagues are rightfully inquiring about the event, program, airfares, accommodation and so on.
The world is fraught with uncertainties. COVID numbers have just spiked again in India, and the rollout of vaccines is patchy in other jurisdictions. The long-term efficacy of the various vaccines is not yet understood. The status of international travel, ?vaccine passports? and quarantine in six or nine months? time is unknowable. ????? ???? ??????? ?
In view of the unstable international situation, the organising committee, with the approval of our parent body, the International Association for Sanskrit Studies, has resolved to defer a decision on the future of the WSC2022 until 1 July 2021. By that date we trust that our path forward will be clearer. Of course we all hope sincerely that the situation will allow a face-to-face conference to proceed as planned, but if that is not the case, then we must consider other options, including further postponement or moving the conference online in some form.
I would like to thank all those colleagues who have submitted abstracts or given generously of their time in coordinating sections and vetting papers. Thank you for contributing your skills and expertise and thank you especially for your patience at this difficult time.
Yours sincerely,
McComas Taylor
On behalf of the National Organising Committee, WSC2022
[cid:e0edf69b-74f8-4aa3-b824-1a8b465e2065]
McComas Taylor
Associate Professor
Reader in Sanskrit
College of Asia and the Pacific
The Australian National University
WSC Website<http://www.wsc2021.com.au>| McC Website<https://sites.google.com/site/mccomasanu/>
Zoom: https://tinyurl.com/p01tig8k
