[INDOLOGY] 
Dear Dimitry,
I would be surprised if this story appears in any Indian sources not only because this is the only Chinese translation of an Indian text in which it appears, but because it is used in a section of the ??ra?gama trying to defend a certain interpretation of the Awakening of Faith?s theories concerning how non-awakening could arise from original awakening ? and the Awakening of Faith is a well known Chinese apocryphal text pretending to be authored by A?vagho?a and supposedly translated by Param?rtha ? neither of which attributions are true.
There are almost two hundred mentions of the story in native Chinese sources, all ultimately derived from this story in the apocryphal ??ra?gama s?tra. The story itself seems to draw on recognizable elements that one does find in Indian texts ? the image of cutting off the head of a headless person in MMK 7; the common analogy of m?na (conceit) as looking at one?s face in a mirror as a caution against attachment to the illusory nature of self-view, mistaking the reflected image (pratibimba) for the reality (bimba) found in Abhidharma and Yogacara texts, and so on. The ??ra?gama uses the story to argue that non-awakening has no cause or basis, conflating the baselessness of misconceptions and delusions with something non-causal, and thus defending Awakening of Faith by treating non-awakening as unreal and non-existent because it lacks a cause ? a somewhat confused argument that one would not expect to find in Indian sources. In East Asia the story nonetheless resonated, and is found echoed in many forms, as, for instance Linji (Jp, Rinzai) telling his students the following, while giving the story a ?happy? ending (Irmgard Shloegl?s translation):
?
Venerable ones, time is precious! Yet you run about hither and thither, studying Zen, learning the Way, chasing names and phrases, seeking the Buddha and patriarchs and good teachers, full of arbitrary judgments. Do not commit such errors. Followers of the Way, you each have a father and mother. So what more do you seek? Turn round and look into yourselves. An old master said: ?Yajnadatta thought he had lost his head. When he ceased from his frantic looking for it, he had nothing further to  seek.?
?Followers of the Way, if you know that fundamentally there is nothing to seek, you have settled your affairs. But because you have little faith, you run about agitatedly, seeking your head which you think you have lost. You cannot stop yourselves.
?
best wishes,
Dan
