From luther.obrock at gmail.com  Fri Apr 30 21:31:29 2021
From: luther.obrock at gmail.com (luther obrock)
Date: Fri, 30 Apr 2021 17:31:29 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] 3rd Annual Workshop in Indian Epigrpahy
Message-ID: <CALM2Y+q2LnJ8ttePbRELbsEJ27cqhAEiAfV38iSKmuSb4P5big@mail.gmail.com>

Dear Friends and Colleagues,



We are pleased to invite your participation in the Third Annual Workshop in
Indian Epigraphy, covering inscriptions from the fourth to the eleventh
centuries. The course will offer an introduction to the palaeography and
language of the inscriptions as well as a discussion of their place in
social, political, and literary history. Sessions will take place over two
weeks, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from June 14th to June 26th. The
workshop will be held virtually over Zoom, hosted by the University of
Toronto. It is open to both students and faculty with an intermediate
knowledge of Sanskrit.



This international workshop will introduce participants to the skills
necessary for reading and interpreting inscriptions of the Maitraka,
Kadamba, Calukya, Rastrakuta and Silahara dynasties. Daily sessions on the
palaeography, grammar, and interpretation of stone and copper plate
inscriptions will be led by the project organizers. We will learn to use
estampages and photographs, consult text editions and digital tools, and
contextualize our readings in light of archaeological and historical
evidence. Featured instructors will include Dr. Annette Schmiedchen
(Humboldt University, Berlin), Dr. Elizabeth Cecil (Florida State
University), Dr. Mekhola Gomes (Durham University), Dr. Jason Neelis
(Wilfrid Laurier University), Dr. Daud Ali (University of Pennsylvania),
and Dr. Luther Obrock (University of Toronto, Mississauga). The workshop
will also a feature a lecture by Ranabir Chakrabarti (Jawaharlal Nehru
University).



To register please send a 2-3 sentence expression of interest detailing
your Sanskrit training  and your interest in the topic as well as a current
CV to Luther Obrock at luther.obrock at utoronto.ca



Please share widely and do not hesitate to reach out if you have further
questions,



Sincerely,



Luther Obrock
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20210430/e8a4a6f7/attachment.htm>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: Summer Epigraphy 2021 Poster.pdf
Type: application/pdf
Size: 2200205 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20210430/e8a4a6f7/attachment.pdf>

