[INDOLOGY] Comparison of Brahmins (and their cultural context)
 with Nazis (and their cultural context)? both inappropriate and inapt
References: <CAGCGLoAW-WcCMgMpBc-pDxu8iZDZUXUVN7ANSTMbA3qpV96qGg@mail.gmail.com>
Dear Jan,
Thank you for making this PDF available, I have a hard copy but it's always
useful to have a digital one too.
I too feel the comparison is fraught, please correct me if my musings are
completely wrong, but it seems to narrowly define Nazism as a kind of
anti-urban sentiment, and I don't think that is the case at all. Rather,
the Nazis who patronized the House of German Art were *urban*! We know of
many lyric poetic traditions (from the Sangam to the troubadours of
Proven?e) who loved to represent the bucolic scene in their verbal art yet
that art was performed at a courtly non-rural setting. So are all these
"anti-urban" and thus some species of Nazism? Hardly. There is a much more
immediate reason why urban Nazis might have preferred landscapes, namely
they figured themselves to be natural inherent landlords of the country
(the Volk) and thus the sole owners/stakeholders of the government.
Everyone else is either an outsider or a service tenant in this model, no?
Urbanites viewing scenes of ruralia seems to me to be more about
constructing a vision of themselves as these landlords, like the
slave-owning plantation owners in the US that Hitler admired (and of course
a feature of classical liberalism is that only landed gentry can vote, that
is "own" the govt; "manifest destiny" easily becomes the quest for
Lebensraum). In other words, the museum becomes a way for urban Nazis to
conceive of their place in their domain.
And maybe this isn't the whole story, but it seems to be radically
different from the middle (even late) Vedic situation, which derives
directly from a real pastoral/horticultural mode of subsistence in which
pasturage/fields are not part of self-idealization but actually the basis
of food production. The elaborate inter-clan hospitality rituals of the
Vedas speaks more to an anxiety of the fragile nature of that existence and
the tenuous balance of power. Rather than anti-urban, I imagine that urban
centers were simply irrelevant to Vedic civilization at first, their more
immediate concerns were inter-clan politics on the ground. Now,
post-Alexander and post-A?oka we may have a very different story but I am
not sure if we should continue to call it "Vedic civilization" at that
point. And if we are talking about post-Alexander/post-A?oka then we are
talking about a radically different community, arguably traumatized, and
newly reactionary. I think that's a very different and new set of aesthetic
commitments and social concerns guiding the proto-Dharma tradition than
that of the middle/late Vedic period proper.
Perhaps there is something in the comparison I have completely
misunderstood, and if so mea culpa, but otherwise I don't get it.
Best,
Caley
On Sun, May 9, 2021 at 9:59 AM Jan E.M. Houben via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
