[INDOLOGY] Padmanbh Jaini: obituary note
Dear Colleagues,
it is with great sadness that I write to inform that our revered colleague, teacher and friend, Prof. Padmanabh Srivarma Jaini, master of Buddhist and Jain Studies, passed away on Tuesday May 25, just five months shy from what would have been his 98th birthday. His health had been failing over the last weeks, and he peacefully passed away on his own terms in his home in the Berkeley hills, with his son Arvind at his side, who as a medical doctor oversaw his gentle departure. While he became more frail over the last years, Prof. Jaini was crystal clear in his head until the very end, remembered details and names with great accuracy and left us a lovely account of his rich and long life with his Yog?yoga memoirs (2019; for details see https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/a-world-of-learning-the-journey-of-padmanabh-jaini/cid/1686901 <https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/a-world-of-learning-the-journey-of-padmanabh-jaini/cid/1686901>). He also continued to be accessible to colleagues and students and took a deep interest in their work. Only at the beginning of this month (May) he gave a long and passionate speech about Buddhist Studies and its history at Berkeley, standing on the balcony of his home and addressing the students and faculty of Berkeley?s Buddhist Studies graduate program who had assembled below in the street. Together with Prof. Lewis Lancaster he had founded this program after moving from Ann Arbor (University of Michigan) to Berkeley (University of California) in 1972. The program allowed him to train a whole generation of Buddhist Studies scholars who came to serve as professors at premier institutions, advancing  and institutionalizing the study of Buddhism in the US and beyond. As he said shortly before his passing "my legacy are my books, and my students who went on to be professors and academics.? Jaini?s service to the field of Buddhist Studies as something of an ?diguru is matched by his contributions to the field of Jain Studies, which were duly celebrated in an international symposium on The Study of Jainism held in his honor at Berkeley in October 2013 on the occasion of his 90th birthday. His Festschrift Jainism and Early Buddhism, Essays in Honour of Padmanabh S. Jaini (2003) draws on his specialization in both areas.
Trained in Sanskrit and Pali at the University of Bombay (MA completed in 1949), and at Vidyodaya Pirivena in Sri Lanka (where he received the Tipi?aka ?c?rya degree in 1951), Padmanabh Jaini earned his PhD under the supervision of John Brough at SOAS (1958) with a dissertation dedicated to a study of the Abhidharmad?pa. The publication of the critical edition (Patma 1959) marks the beginning of a long list of editions, monographs and articles dedicated to study of Indian Buddhism. This list includes important editions of Pali works, viz. the Milinda-??k? (1961), the Lokaneyyappakara?a? (1986), the fifty extra-canonical J?takas Prof. Jaini had discovered in Burma (Pa??a?sa-Ja?taka, 1981-1983; translation 1985-1986), and Sa?gharakkhita?s treatise on rhetoric entitled Subodh?la?kara together with its commentarial tradition(2000), as well as further editions of Sanskrit works, viz. Ratn?kara??nti?s pa?jik? (entitled S?ratam?) on the A?tt?asa?hasrika? (1979) and Amrrr?tacandras?ri?s Laghutattvasphota (1978), a Jain (Dig?mabara) work. Beyond these editions and textual studies Prof. Jaini has authored a wide range of articles and book chapters that explore particular aspects of the mentioned texts, and that are also dedicated to a wide array of other topics and subjects in the history of Buddhism, albeit with a clear focus on abhidharma and related scholastic traditions. Many of these incisive papers have been brought together in his Collected Papers on Buddhist Studies (2001). Prof. Jaini?s work on Buddhism stands out not only for the critical acumen, learnedness and precision he has brought to it thanks also to his superb command of Sanskrit and Pali, but also because he has always treated Buddhism as part of the larger Indian religious landscape. This was easy for him because of his intimate knowledge of Jainism and the Brahmanical traditions. His monograph The Jaina Path of Purification (first published in 1979) became a classic that has brought the study and knowledge of Jainism to a broader English speaking public, and his numerous further publications on Jainism have made him something of a founder figure also in this field. Beyond his mentioned introduction to Jainism this includes a detailed monograph dedicated to the study of Gender and Salvation: Jaina Debates on the Spiritual Liberation of Women (1991), a book-length study of ?Jain Sectarian Debates: Eighty-four points of contention (Caury?msi Bol) Between ?vet?mbaras and Digambaras? (Journal of Indian Philosophy 36, 2008, pp. 1-246), an earlier monograph authored in Hindi on Jain Samprad?y men mok?a, avat?r aur punarjanma (1982), as well as a rich array of articles and book chapters, most of which have been reprinted in his Collected Papers on Jaina Studies (2000).
Prof. Jaini?s rich oeuvre combines the best virtues of western scholarship with the deep traditional learning in which he was steeped before moving to the west. He was a capacious thinker whose keen interest in religion extended beyond India to the abrahamic traditions and made him a welcome (though reluctant) participant in interreligious dialogue. More generally he was extraordinarily well read also in areas outside the confines of his academic specialization. His innate curiosity and the spirit of unrelenting inquiry he brought to his studies were infectious. He inspired not only his numerous students but also touched the lives of his colleagues and friends with his gentle smile and the generosity with which he shared his seemingly boundless knowledge. Padmanabh Jaini is survived by his son Arvind and his grandson Ashvin.
Alexander von Rospatt
????????
Professor in the Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies, and Director of the Group in Buddhist Studies
University of California, Berkeley
