[INDOLOGY] Comparison of Brahmins (and their cultural context)
 with Nazis (and their cultural context)? both inappropriate and inapt
References: <CAGCGLoAW-WcCMgMpBc-pDxu8iZDZUXUVN7ANSTMbA3qpV96qGg@mail.gmail.com>
 <CABiu6VzJMFO3N_++m5Pt3n2-grFCch7kiEjYmgKamxNhcKaxWg@mail.gmail.com>
 <CALNcvFtyo2X6t0UqQ2cNxBpq85x_3bMK+jj0FmoAyXy5dF3TVA@mail.gmail.com>
Dear Artur,
I would say... I don't know? Most Vedic ritual activities depict themselves
as being ideally patronized by a materially-wealthy financiers or hoping
for that (and despising stingy ones). The ritual moment is a kind of public
moment when many clans are together and so the proto-?rauta system, I see,
as a kind of inter-clan negotiation one
which can produce a coalition, a detente to hostilities, as well as
consecration, marriage, funerary activities. So the focus is really on the
poetic-priestly tradition and these patrons as the audience. Not much
mention of cities, urban life, etc. but it's also not necessarily the case
that a clan that patronized Vedic ritual
could not be construed through the categories of "farmers, craftsmen,
merchants" in addition to what we expect (that is ranchers). I would say
the texts care little for this kind of vision of society, and rather are
focused on a society made of  generous and hospitable patrons (as opposed
to stingy ones), and those in our coalition (as opposed to
enemies/outsiders). But on urban life in the Vedas proper I have heard a
vast silence---and that makes sense because cities were not "on the ritual
ground" and nearly everything topical and of concern to the Vedas is
happening on the ritual ground or is embedded in an aetiological narrative
justifying something happening on the ritual ground. That does not mean
that they didn't know about cities, but in my published work I don't write
about urban life either because it is not the topic at hand (as I imagine
Buddhist dh?ra??s, for instance, don't have much to say about urban
logistics either...). In which case, we wouldn't speak of "Vedic
civilization" either, we would speak of Vedic "ceremony-networks" from
which perhaps we can infer things about the historical political
organizations that employed them.
On the other hand, by this description I am inherently assuming Vedic
tradition is something that has to do with the "Vedic period" and "the
Vedas," there are of course much later (pre/post Classical) texts that
would claim the mantle of the Vedic tradition that *may* have a good deal
to say about urban life, but if so I am ignorant of them currently and
would love to know more.
Best,
Caley
On Sun, May 9, 2021 at 11:49 AM Artur Karp <karp at uw.edu.pl> wrote:
