[INDOLOGY] Protest against cutback plans at the University of
 Halle
References: <CALoZ1nU3a9KbQ4B8bmcRYGUKLuyw4R2H1-b=1JVJrwquLh7CWw@mail.gmail.com>
 <CAMGmO4Jc+KnTZaTCZvp6UcqyfLmjuOoadW4oYjN=YgDpsWe4sA@mail.gmail.com>
 <CALoZ1nXK49VVQqjiJgp_Hn8hKOgNK9acgG5c-qA4itYefkUg2Q@mail.gmail.com>
While I am aware that many on this list read German fluently, I also know
that many don't. In that spirit, I respectfully offer the translation given
below.
?
We call on the rectorate of the Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg
to stop the massive cutback plans and not to cut 10 chairs/institutes as
planned. We call on the state government and the democratic parliamentary
groups in the state parliament of Saxony-Anhalt to finally ensure stable
and task-oriented basic funding for the universities of the state. We
appeal to the senators of the Martin Luther University to clearly stand up
for the unity of research and teaching, the preservation of "small
subjects" and for the diversity of our university.
Reason
Several faculties will be closed, institutes will be cut, courses of study
will be cancelled: this is the proposal for the future of the MLU, which
will be decided on in the senate on Wednesday (June 2). While we are
already suffering from massive cuts, the future is to become even bleaker.
Without any scientific or professional justification, the courses of study
in Greek Studies, Latin Studies, Indology, Japanese Studies, Language and
Culture of South Asia, Middle and Neo-Latin Philology, Near Eastern
Archaeology, Agricultural and Environmental Engineering, and Regional
Cultures and Cultural Techniques, as well as the Institute of Ancient
Studies and the Institute of Sports Science are to be closed forever. This
is obviously not a matter of setting priorities in terms of content, but
rather a barrage of cuts that will hit those areas where professors will be
retiring in the near future. And it often hits the "small subjects", which
are so valuable precisely because they are only taught at a few
universities. But it is not only the students enrolled there who will be
affected: we will all feel a significant deterioration in quality of
learning, because according to the plans of the rectorate, 100 full-time
positions will be eliminated, examination offices will be merged and
faculties will be united: for example, Phil. Fak 1 will be dissolved and
what remains of it will be assigned to the new faculties from Phil. Fak. 2
& 3 and in Political Science the chairs for Political Theory and Government
are to be merged. (Philologische Fakultaeten: about the same as schools
(UK)/colleges (US) of a university)
Fewer researchers and fewer administrative staff, that is how the new
concept can be summarized. And it will not stop there: subjects such as
computer science are already named in the concept as needing reform, i.e.
cuts, and the three natural science faculties are to be reduced to two
anyway. Participation of the employees and students is apparently not
desired, because the draft is to be decided without further discussion on
Wednesday. The implementation is to begin in August and be completed by
October 2022.
We will not participate in this! It is clear to us that the financial
situation of the MLU is bad. We know that the state government is failing
to fund universities, and we demand that theMLU's base funding finally be
stabilized and expanded. But we see above all that nothing justifies these
massive cuts and the death of entire faculties.
We appeal to the senators not to agree to this concept. We demand from the
rectorate to immediately withdraw this concept and to seek a real dialogue
with the faculties. We demand that the state government and the democratic
parliamentary groups face up to this problem for the entire educational
landscape in Saxony-Anhalt and fund the MLU. The loss for our higher
education landscape will be much greater than the 15 million euros that
will thus be taken out of the budget.
On Mon, 31 May 2021 at 15:27, Walter Slaje via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
