[INDOLOGY] Partial success at the University of Halle
Dear list,
Some news from Halle, where yesterday NO decisions to cut
professorships/close departments were made! Instead, it was decided that
the very real need for cuts would be addressed in a process where all parts
of the university are involved and, at least officially, have a say.
Please find below the email that everyone who had contacted the relevant
people directly received about an hour ago. That that email was sent out in
German *and English* shows that they clearly noticed the international
interest this case has generated. Which I think means: if you haven't
voiced your views yet, and if you have a moment to email the minister of
education (and cc the rector and dean, all contact details given at the
bottom of the email), your voice may very well have an impact.
Many thanks to everyone who has signed the petition (added again below)
and/or already shared their views in an email!
Antonia
Sehr geehrte Damen und Herren,
haben Sie herzlichen Dank f?r Ihr unterst?tzendes Schreiben. Der Senat der
Martin-Luther-Universit?t hat in seiner gestrigen Sitzung keine
Studieng?nge geschlossen, sondern nach eingehender Diskussion einen
Beschluss gefasst, dass sich Rektorat, Senat, die betreffende Kommission
und schlie?lich die Fakult?ten, gemeinsam den enormen finanziellen
Herausforderungen stellen muss und gemeinsam L?sungsvorschl?ge erarbeiten
m?ssen. Dabei wird es sicher auch um die Streichungen von Professuren gehen
m?ssen. In einer gemeinsam verfassten Stellungnahme aller Dekane der
Fakult?t hei?t es: ?Streichungen von Professuren und F?chern bed?rfen einer
genauen und unvoreingenommenen Pr?fung durch diese einzusetzenden
Arbeitsgruppen; s?mtliche Parameter (Studierenden-Zahlen, Forschungsbilanz,
internationale Wahrnehmung, nationale und internationale Relevanz des
Fachs, Anschlussf?higkeit, Absolvent*innen [BA, MA, Lehr?mter,
Dissertationen und Habilitationen]) sind dabei zu ber?cksichtigen.? Dieser
internen Evaluation werden sich alle Bereiche der Universit?t stellen
m?ssen, so auch die sog. Kleinen F?cher, aber eben nicht nur die kleinen
F?cher. Dies sage ich in vollem Bewusstsein, dass mein Lehrstuhl
?Pr?historische Arch?ologie? ebenfalls dem Spektrum der kleine F?cher
zugeordnet wird. F?r den nun angeschobenen Prozess ist Ihre Stellungnahme
zweifelsfrei eine wichtige St?tze.
 Mit den besten Gr??en
Fran?ois Bertemes
Dekan
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen,
Thank you very much for your letter of support. At its meeting yesterday,
the Senate of the Martin Luther University did not close any degree
programmes but, after in-depth discussion, passed a resolution that the
Rectorate, the Senate, the relevant commissions and, finally, the
faculties, must jointly face up to the enormous financial challenges and
jointly develop proposals for solutions.  This will certainly also have to
involve the cancellation of professorships. In a statement jointly written
by all deans of our faculties, we declare: "Cancellations of professorships
and research areas require a precise and unbiased examination by working
groups to be set up; all parameters (student numbers, research record,
international perception, national and international relevance of the
subject, connectivity, graduates [BA, MA, teaching degrees, dissertations
and habilitations]) are to be taken into account." All areas of the
university will have to face this internal evaluation, including the
so-called small research and teaching fields, but not only the small
research and teaching fields. I say this in full awareness of the fact that
my Chair of Prehistoric Archaeology is also assigned to the spectrum of
small areas. Your statement is undoubtedly an important support for the
process that has now been initiated.
Best regards
Fran?ois Bertemes
Dean
The petition is taking signatures for two more days:
https://www.openpetition.de/petition/online/kahlschlag-an-der-mlu-verhindern-fakultaeten-retten
If you'd be willing to send an email to the powers that be: here they are
1) Prof. Dr. Armin Willingmann
Ministerium f?r Wirtschaft, Wissenschaft und Digitalisierung des Landes
Sachsen-Anhalt
Hasselbachstra?e 4
D-39104 Magdeburg
Email: vorzimmerMin at mw.sachsen-anhalt.de
2) Rektor:
Prof. Dr. Christian Tietje
Martin-Luther-Universit?t Halle-Wittenberg
Universit?tsplatz 10
D-06108 Halle
Email: rektor at uni-halle.de
3) Dekan:
Prof. Dr. Fran?ois Bertemes
Emil-Abderhalden-Stra?e 6
D-06108 Halle
Email: dekan at philfak1.uni-halle.de
