[INDOLOGY] Modality in ancient Indian philosophy
 <DM6PR11MB439614AF8EC0FB14E0EEC65DA1019@DM6PR11MB4396.namprd11.prod.outlook.com>
Dear Jan and Matt,
Please take a look at chapter 17 of Buddhist Phenomenology, which offers some material and discussion relevant to that issue. In part, Candrak?rti?s Prasannapad?. to MMK 26-30 is interpreted as reponses to three types of claim for makes something ?real? or ?existent,? viz., it is real because it causes something, real because it is the effect of something, real because ?its fruit has an enjoyer? (i.e., it causes a perception). Candrak?rti refutes each criterion with counterexamples: hair of a tortoise, teeth of a crow, i.e., impossible because contrary to something?s nature; sky-flower, i.e., empirically unverifiable; and a mango growing in space, i.e., a mirage (like mirage water that can?t quench real thirst); respectively. Admittedly a sharp distinction between the counterexamples of the second and third criteria might be a bit murky.
Yogacara, on the other hand, does offer a clearer hierarchy, largely drawn from Abhidharma: At the bottom is utterly mistaken and unreal (equivalent to parikalpita). Next, the realm of sa?v?ti has several layers. At the bottom is praj?apti as false concepts. Next is praj?apti that accurately summarizes or labels a compilation of real things (praj?apti-sat) ? e.g., when Vasubandhu in the Ko?a-bh??ya uses a ?fist? as an example of a praj?apti; one could add common examples such as army, forest, etc. as examples of praj?apti-sat (declaring a hostile army ?unreal? doesn?t prevent it from causing damage). Next is dravya, meaning something that exerts causal efficacy (see the criteria above). Dravya-sat is as high as the sa?v?ti levels go. That is expressed summarily in Yogacara as paratantra, starting with parikalpic-paratantra and ending with param?rthic-paratrantra. Above that is param?rtha, about which little is cogently predicable, and in some forms of Yogacara basically serves as a countermeasure (pratipak?a) to parikalpic infestations of paratantra. That is parini?panna. According to Xuanzang?s critique of Madhyamaka, M?dhyamikans (of the Bh?vivekan ilk, he seems unaware of Candrak?rti) fail to adequately distinguish between parikalpita and paratantra, reducing both to a type of illusionism, whereas for Yogacara paratantra has grounding in reality while parikalpita is utterly unreal and erroneous.
Also cf. Christian Lindtner, ?Bhavya?s Critique of Yog?c?ra in the Madhyamaka-ratnaprad?pa, Ch. IV,? in Matilal and Evans (eds.), Buddhist Logic and Epistemology, Dordrecht, 1986 and Ian Charles Harris, The Continuity of Madhyamaka and Yog?c?ra in Indian Mah?y?na Buddhism, Leiden: EJ Brill, 1991, esp. ch. six.
One might also look at the debates in the medieval period about different types of khy?tis, or ?errors? ? perceptual, conceptual, intrinsic, etc. Matt is right that medieval Indian thought does not seem to adopt an explicit counterpart to Aristotle?s necessity, contingency and accident, largely because they favor a posteriori proofs over a priori notions - that is especially true of the Buddhists whose influence especially in the pram??av?da domain pushed non-Buddhists to develop argumentation along a posteriori lines.
All that is, of course, broad stroke overview. Details get messier.
Dan
