Hi Madhav,
1) The search function for the list appears to only work for the most
recent few months.
2) I asked this question to the list in 1999 and it also came up in some
other discussions about Gayatri mantras later on (2019 )
The replies I got onlist and offlist were:
a) As for Whitney, I am not sure when such a shift in the understanding of
dh?mahi begins.  I have a suspicion that even in the old famous G?yatr?:
bhargo devasya dh?mahi, dhiyo yo na? pracoday?t, the poet is playing with
the relationship between the verb dh?mahi and the subsequent foot: dhiyo yo
na? pracoday?t, and hence the understanding of dh?mahi as alternatively
being derived from dh? may be quite old.  I was struck more by the almost
sustained shift to the use of dative with dh?mahi and vidmahe, and have
been thinking about what might have prompted this shift, in spite of the
fact that much of the later formulaic use is in imitation of the old famous
G?yatr? mantra that uses the accusative.
b) Hoffman treats this particular form in his AufsAtze sur Indoiranistic,
bd 2,
1976, pp.483-485
c) As for dhImahi. It is indeed *optative,* not of dhI but of dhA, see
again K.Hoffmann?s Aufs?tze somewhere (via index). Again both Witzel-Got?
and Jamison-Brereton recent translations have it right: ?we wish to place?
(no ?meditation' here, that is a later interpretation).
d) dh?mahi was an aorist optative (or, less probable, injunctive) in the
RV: 'may we obtain / make our own'. On the one hand, these forms become
rarer and rarer already in Vedic texts, but may still have been understood
by some (as we still understand forms such as 'maketh', but do not use
them). On the other hand, dh?mahi cannot actually be a present form: it
would have to be dh?mahe. As of now I do not know when and how the
reinterpretation occurred first; the texts I've surveyed so far
are generally silent on the individual words of the mantra. However, the
parallelism with vidmahe in the modified G?yatr?s may point to a more
"cognitive" interpretation.
e)  I've just checked Werba's Verba Indoarica for dhImahi (under dhA)  page
298 and he has this as an aorist optative.
Harry Spier
On Mon, Jul 19, 2021 at 1:12 PM Madhav Deshpande via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
