[INDOLOGY] Position in South Asian Philosophy at the University of
 Toronto
Dear friends and colleagues,
Please see below the advertisement for a tenure-track position (at the rank of Associate Professor) in South Asian Philosophy at the University of Toronto. Applications are due on September 30, 2021. Please forward this to anyone who may be interested.
Thank you,
Ajay Rao
University of Toronto
Associate Professor - South Asian Philosophy
Date Posted: 08/05/2021
Closing Date: 09/30/2021, 11:59PM ET
Req ID: 9681
Job Category: Faculty - Tenure Stream (continuing)
Faculty/Division: University of Toronto Mississauga
Department: UTM: Philosophy
Campus: University of Toronto Mississauga (UTM)
Description:
The Department of Philosophy at the University of Toronto at Mississauga invites applications for a full-time tenure stream position in South Asian Philosophy at the rank of Associate Professor. The appointment is anticipated to begin on July 1, 2022.
Candidates must hold a PhD in Philosophy or a closely related field. The successful candidate must have a clearly demonstrated exceptional record of excellence in research and teaching, an established excellent research profile in South Asian Philosophy, as well as a strong research profile in contemporary metaphysics/epistemology, broadly conceived to include the philosophy of language and the philosophy of mind. We are especially interested in scholars that supplement their research profile in South Asian Philosophy with a strong research profile in contemporary epistemology. We seek candidates whose research and teaching interests complement and enhance our existing departmental strengths<https://philosophy.utoronto.ca/about/>.
Candidates must provide evidence of excellence in research as demonstrated by a record of sustained high-impact contributions and publications in top-ranked and field relevant journals, the submitted research statement, presentations at significant conferences, distinguished awards and accolades for innovative work, other noteworthy activities that contribute to the visibility and prominence of the discipline, and strong endorsements by referees of high standing. The successful candidate will have an established international reputation and will be expected to sustain and lead an independent and innovative research program in South Asian Philosophy, and to be conducting an outstanding and competitive research program at a high level in contemporary metaphysics/epistemology.
The successful candidate must also be able to teach a wide range of courses in philosophy from the introductory to advanced levels, at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. Candidates must provide evidence of excellence in teaching as demonstrated through teaching accomplishments, the teaching dossier (including the statement of teaching philosophy), sample course materials, and teaching evaluations, as well as strong letters of reference.
Salary will be commensurate with qualifications and experience.
At UTM we are committed to fostering an environment of diversity and inclusion. With an enviable diverse student body, we especially welcome applications from candidates who identify as Indigenous, Black, or racially visible (persons of colour), and who have experience working with teaching or mentoring diverse groups or students. Candidates should demonstrate, in their application materials, an ability to foster diversity on campus and within the curriculum or discipline, and should show evidence of a commitment to equity, diversity, inclusion, and the promotion of a respectful and collegial environment. Candidates should submit a statement describing their contributions to equity, diversity, and inclusion, which might cover topics such as (but not limited to): teaching that incorporates a focus on underrepresented communities; efforts undertaken to develop inclusive pedagogies, collaboration, and engagement with underrepresented communities; and mentoring of students from underrepresented groups. If you have questions about this statement, please contact the Chair of UTM Philosophy, Gurpreet Rattan at chair.philosophy.utm at utoronto.ca<mailto:UTM%20Philosophy%20Chair%20%3cchair.philosophy.utm at utoronto.ca%3e>.
The University of Toronto has three campuses ? Mississauga, St. George, and Scarborough ? each with its own Department of Philosophy offering undergraduate programs. The advertised position is on the Mississauga campus. The Graduate Department of Philosophy at the University of Toronto is a tri-campus department, consisting of philosophy faculty appointed on all three campuses. Graduate teaching and supervision typically take place on the St. George campus.
The Department of Philosophy at the University of Toronto is widely recognized as Canada?s best and most comprehensive philosophy department and as an international leader in the field. The University of Toronto offers the opportunity to teach, conduct research and live in one of the most diverse and cosmopolitan cities in the world. For more information about the Department of Philosophy, please visit http://www.philosophy.utoronto.ca<http://www.philosophy.utoronto.ca/>.
All qualified candidates are invited to apply online by clicking the link below. Applicants must submit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching dossier (including a statement of teaching philosophy, sample syllabi and teaching evaluations), a statement outlining current and future research interests, a diversity statement as it relates to research, teaching, and service (as outlined above), and copies of two representative publications.
Applicants must provide the names and contact information of at least three and no more than four referees. The University of Toronto?s recruiting tool will automatically solicit and collect letters of reference form each once an application is submitted (this happens overnight). Applicants remain responsible for ensuring that referees submit letters (on letterhead, dated and signed), and that the letters are submitted by the referees by the closing date of September 30th, 2021.
The application deadline is September 30th, 2021. All application materials must be submitted online by the closing date. Submission guidelines can be found at: http://uoft.me/how-to-apply. Your CV and cover letter should be uploaded into the dedicated fields. Please combine additional application materials into one or two files in PDF format. If you have any questions about this position, please contact Elisabeta Vanatoru, Assistant to the Chair, at elisabeta.vanatoru at utoronto.ca<mailto:elisabeta.vanatoru at utoronto.ca>.
All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.
Diversity Statement
The University of Toronto is strongly committed to diversity within its community and especially welcomes applications from racialized persons / persons of colour, women, Indigenous / Aboriginal People of North America, persons with disabilities, LGBTQ2S+ persons, and others who may contribute to the further diversification of ideas.
As part of your application, you will be asked to complete a brief Diversity Survey. This survey is voluntary. Any information directly related to you is confidential and cannot be accessed by search committees or human resources staff. Results will be aggregated for institutional planning purposes. For more information, please see http://uoft.me/UP.
Accessibility Statement
The University strives to be an equitable and inclusive community, and proactively seeks to increase diversity among its community members. Our values regarding equity and diversity are linked with our unwavering commitment to excellence in the pursuit of our academic mission.
The University is committed to the principles of the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA). As such, we strive to make our recruitment, assessment and selection processes as accessible as possible and provide accommodations as required for applicants with disabilities.
If you require any accommodations at any point during the application and hiring process, please contact uoft.careers at utoronto.ca<mailto:uoft.careers at utoronto.ca>.
Click here to apply?<https://jobs.utoronto.ca/talentcommunity/apply/549427217/?locale=en_US>
