[INDOLOGY] A few Indian clothing items
References: <CAOYD-QDCi_cDt4xDR70nDmYv5tmXMWac4Q6P15SFxXPjQvZuaw@mail.gmail.com>
Apparently, in the Subh??itaratnako?a edited and translated by Ingalls the word n?vi occurs only once, namely in 696. But you might also have a look at the note added to this translation on p. 516. There, Ingalls refers to Kau?ilya's Artha??stra, unfortunately to an edition (the one from Trivandrum) of this text I do not have.
Herman
Herman Tieken
Stationsweg 58
2515 BP Den Haag
The Netherlands
00 31 (0)70 2208127
website: hermantieken.com<http://hermantieken.com/>
Van: INDOLOGY <indology-bounces at list.indology.info> namens Gaia Pintucci via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info>
Verzonden: zondag 22 augustus 2021 14:37:01
Aan: Indology
Onderwerp: [INDOLOGY] A few Indian clothing items
Dear list members,
I have a few questions about (ancient/medieval) Indian clothing items.
My starting point is Amaru?ataka 100:
k?nte talpam up?gate vigalit? n?v? svaya? bandhan?d
v?so vi?lathamekhal?gu?adh?ta? ki?cinnitambe sthitam |
et?vat sakhi vedmi sampratam aha? tasy??gasa?ge puna?
ko 'ya? k?smi rata? nu v? katham iti svalp?pi me na sm?ti? ||
Once the n?yik?'s n?v? falls off by itself, her dress (v?sas) hangs a little bit from the ?threads? of her mekhal?. So there are (at least) three layers, which, from the innermost to the outermost, are: 1) mekhal? 2) dress 3) n?v?.
A mekhal? should be a belt made of metal, so I guess it has some wires or thin chains (the gu?as of the stanza) that hang and that might be decorated with pearls and the like. This explains how it is that in the stanza the dress is said to hang from the mekhal?: it gets caught on the wires/chains and the decorative items.
But the n?v? is the item I am especially curious about. It is defined in Amarako?a 3.3.213 (I follow Oka's 1913 edition with K??rasv?min's commentary, p. 217) in this way: str?ka??vastrabandhe 'pi n?v? [paripa?e 'pi ca]. An Amaru?ataka commentator called Caturbhuja glosses n?v? as vastragranthi?. A different commentator, S?ryad?sa, explains the sentence n?v? svaya? bandhan?d vigalit? with the words nitambasicaye bandhan?t sa?nive??d granthi? visrasta?. It seems to me that a n?v? should be both a sash that steadies the clothes on the hips and the knot of the sash.
Now, my questions/requests are:
0) Please, kindly let me know if I am on the wrong track with regard to the mekhal? and the n?v?.
1) In one manuscript of S?ryad?sa's commentary the word n?v? is followed by the word dhudhurik?, which might well be a gloss. The scribe was active in Bundi (Rajasthan), is dhudhurik? a Rajasthani word?
2) Can anyone show me a painting or other kind of image of a lady wearing a n?v??
3) Does anyone know roughly when and where the kind of clothing I described above was in use?
4) As far as I know, in present-day India nivi is the name of one of the sari binding styles. Is this word related to the Sanskrit word n?v??
Sorry for the long brainstorming and the many questions.
All the best,
Gaia Pintucci
