[INDOLOGY] =?utf-8?b?QsSB4bmHxIFzdXJhIHN0b3JpZXM=?=
 <EBC96C1F-8D3F-423D-8093-5E49914C336B@aol.com>
 <AS8PR02MB7173E7F7B2272D68A626F8D78CFF9@AS8PR02MB7173.eurprd02.prod.outlook.com>
 <CA+XoKzW3Hwd5Ne9D9LGt4qowyPoAAeOQfN4b3M_wt1MktqtJVQ@mail.gmail.com>
Dear P?ter,
Thank you very much for your valuable references. I am looking for a translation of the Southern Recension of the Mah?bh?rata, if any. In the meantime, with the kind help of Simon Broadbeck and McComas Taylor, I have looked at the content of the critical editions of the Harivam?a and the Vi??u Pur?na. They do not have any mention of the dances by K???a, Vi??u, Indr??i, and Manmatha in connection with B???sura. I am assuming that the critical edition of the Mah?bh?rata does not have them either since you mention only the Southern Recension. 
This leads to a number of interesting questions. Thennilapuram P. Mahadevan in his article, 'On the Southern Recension of the Mah?bh?rata, Brahman Migrations, and Br?hm? Paleography,? discusses the Southern Recension?s Malayalam version (SRM) and its alignment with the ??rada version of the Northern Recension. The date of the Cilappatik?ram was close to that of the date of SRM being moved into Kerala by p?rva?ikha Brahmans discussed by T. P. Mahadevan. The location of I?a?k? A?ika?, the author of the Cilappatik?ram, was also close to that of SRM postulated by Mahadevan. But, the Cilappatik?ram mentions the four dances performed in B??a?s city, which are not mentioned in any Sanskrit text produced in the north, especially before about fifth century CE. 
Does this mean stories related to Mah?bh?rata and K???a were transmitted from north India to the Tamil country through non-Brahman traditions even before the Brahman migrations discussed by Mahadevan? Does this also mean that among the stories that were circulating in north India, only whatever were preferred by Brahmans became part of the previleged literary texts, the rest being lost or relegated to folk traditions? So, does the Cilappatik?ram give us a view into some of the lost traditions of north India? Or does it represent creative innovations in the Tamil south as in the case of K???a defeating the seven bulls to marry Satya in the later Bh?gavata Pur??a as discussed by F. Hardy in his Viraha Bhakti? 
Interestingly, an interesting narration in the opposite direction is seen in the Mah?bh?rata. In describing Damayant??s search for Nala mentions her approaching an a?oka, the Mah?bh?rata has her say, ??h, woe on me, here stands this beautiful tree in the deep of the forest, shining with its many chaplets of blossoms, like the illustrious king of Drami?a.? I do not know which Tamil king is being referred to in this narrative. 
Thanks in advance for any comments
Regards,
Palaniappan
