[INDOLOGY] Visualisation of Sanskrit Phonetics
 <260CA2C6-6A94-480A-8D31-0816E82920CA@gmail.com>
What a wonderful website!
I wish I could use ultrasonography when I teach my students to explain the
Sandhi phenomena, e.g. cerebralisation of consonants (cerebral consonants
are the most difficult consonants for Polish speakers).
For example, it takes me much time to explain them how to pronounce the
noun  *k???a. *I tell them that if they want to properly  express it,  they
have to realise:
1) that they have to open their mouth slightly more than when they speak
Polish  and release the muscles of their chicks and other muscles of the
lower part of their face,
1)  that when they open the mouth slightly more and pronounce the guttural
"k", they will have a lot of place between the tip of the tongue and the
palate,
2)  that, having pronounced "k", they have to push the tip of the tongue
slightly back (which is now not difficult thanks to creation of space in
the mouth), and quickly move it in order to pronounce the vocalical "?"
(which is the same movement as in Polish "r"),
3) that, having pronounced "?", they still  have to keep their tongue back
(to "yoke" it) in order to pronounce the sibilant "?" (which is contrary to
Polish habit to move the tongue a bit forward to pronounce the Polish
consonant "sz", the same is for English "sh"),
4) that, having pronounced "?", they still have to "yoke" their tongue in
the same position to pronounce the cerebral "?".
I make funny faces when I try to "show" them this process, they laugh at
me, and I ask them why they don't laugh at people at the gym who train
various muscles of their body (which might look very funny too) and that
the tongue is a muscle too, moreover its structure is unique to human
species, because it allows us to speak. Then  we come back to the exercises
until they say "wow, if we push our tongue back and keep it there, there is
no problems with "?" !".  Then they have to exercise until they are able to
pronounce the word quickly.
The fact that the larynx is placed slightly more below in Sanskrit
pronunciation than in Polish  is the upani?ad and I teach it to them later
on. I have some devices to explain how to lower one's larynx. But the video
would be of much help.
The movements of lips  (generally speaking the whole vocal apparatus) are
also different, but this is easier to be shown. And the role of breathing
is crucial, of course (which I teach my students from the very beginning).
If I had such a device, it would be easier for me to explain to them "the
art of yoking of the tongue".
It would be great if we could create such videos with Sanskrit native
speakers which would take into account the invisible aspects of Sanskrit
phonetics. I'd gladly take part in such an enterprise!
Thank you very much, Adheesh. I will certainly use the page during my
phonetics classes to show the movements of the tongue in general
perspective.
Best wishes,
Joanna
Prof. dr hab. Joanna Jurewicz
Katedra Azji Po?udniowej /Chair of South Asia Studies
Wydzia? Orientalistyczny / Faculty of Oriental Studies
Uniwersytet Warszawski /University of Warsaw
ul. Krakowskie Przedmie?cie 26/28
00-927 Warszawa , Poland
Department of Linguistics and Modern Languages
College of Human Sciences
UNISA
Pretoria, RSA
Member of Academia Europaea
https://uw.academia.edu/JoannaJurewicz
pt., 24 wrz 2021 o 02:47 adheesh sathaye via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> napisa?(a):
