[INDOLOGY] =?utf-8?b?UMSB4bmHaW5p?=
 <CAGCGLoCf_SBvYKSDr7=0gsumqoPhbau-jCNqtG7wwiGHunr3aQ@mail.gmail.com>
 <CAB3-dzfKHpqBovdhcnZsBEk92Z8oJK2tiBsbra7GbM=qXD4zbQ@mail.gmail.com>
Dear Madhav,
The second passage quoted by Victor takes pa?a to refer to praising rather than to trading.  The Dh?tup??ha gives both meanings for the verb:  pa?A vyavah?re stutau ca. If Jan is correct, I suppose one could argue that taking the meaning stuti rather than the more obvious first meaning vyavah?ra was part of a coverup in itself.
Of course a third meaning is also common than that of praising, namely gambling or wagering?something that could occur in either a commercial or a ritual setting (although I imagine in a ritual setting the gambler would more likely be a royal yajam?na than a Brahmin priest).
Yours,
Gary.
Gary Tubb, Anupama and Guru Ramakrishnan Professor
Chair, Department of South Asian Languages and Civilizations
The University of Chicago
On Sep 14, 2021, at 7:51 AM, Madhav Deshpande via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Hello Jan,
     Your circumstantial inference about the commercial background of P??ini may be close to reality, and yet I don't see any awareness of it among the grammarians from K?ty?yana to N?ge?a, and so I would not suspect any deliberate effort to hide this background. Historically, Brahmins have been engaged in various occupations including commercial, political, administrative and agricultural. However, the theoretical role of the Brahmin is always seen in his "Brahmanical" activities.
Madhav
Madhav M. Deshpande
Professor Emeritus, Sanskrit and Linguistics
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA
Senior Fellow, Oxford Center for Hindu Studies
Adjunct Professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bangalore, India
[Residence: Campbell, California, USA]
On Tue, Sep 14, 2021 at 4:42 AM Jan E.M. Houben via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Dear Jim,
The suffix added last in the progressive formation (prakriy?) of the name 'P??ini' is in fact the taddhita suffix i? (AA 4.1.95 aTa i?), so there is no reason to take the word as a neuter noun.
Another example would be d?a?a-rath-i in the sense of ?descendant of d??a-ratha-?, one of the epithets of R?ma.
