[INDOLOGY] Question about Tamil grammar and usage
References: <03169473-5168-4BD9-BC05-459E2FCDDA18.ref@aol.com>
 <03169473-5168-4BD9-BC05-459E2FCDDA18@aol.com>
Dear Professor HH , Greetings!
 ?In addition to Dr Palaiappan?s remarks, I would like to add few more 
information.
The converb (conjunctive participle, absolutive, adverbial participle) 
construction in Tamil (and in Dravidian) is used in a clause with 
several propositions, representing ?successive? actions (verbs), except 
the last verb, which is a finite one.
The CONV constructions in Tamil involves several different discourse 
(semantic, pragmatic) functions like, succession, completion, 
consequence etc, depending mainly on the discourse context.
The ?subject? is deleted if the same ?subject? is involved in such 
successive actions. There is no any constraint on the ?subject?. The 
?subject? need not to be identical and can be inanimate.
app?
pa?am
ko?uttu
a??a?
ka?ai.kku
p?y
k?y
v??ki
father
money
give.CONV
elder brother
shop.DAT
go.CONV
vegetable
buy.CONV
pi?agu
amm?
camaittu
c?ppi???m
after
mother
cook.CONF
eat.PAST.1.PL
?Father gave money, elder brother went to the shop and bought vegetables 
then mother cooed (the food) and we all ate (had our dinner).?
Most importantly, the converb construction is used involving successive 
actions. This structure is part of the upper-level discourse structures. 
That?s why Dr Palaniappan suggested the introduction of completive 
auxiliary and adverbials.
The sentence a) though grammatically well-formed sounds incomplete at 
the discourse pragmatic level. The sentence in a) can appear in, at 
least, two different structures:
a-1. Let us imagine, the sentence describes some regular activities. In 
a sequence of propositions (actions), the first series of sequences 
need, as Dr Palaniappan mentioned, a completive auxiliary. Without the 
completive auxiliary, the previous actions seem to stand in an adverbial 
relation but does not imply the sequence of successive actions.
In a normal conversation:
avarka?//k?yilukku/??????p//?//yi p?cai /*/ceytu.vi??u/*/ka?aikku.p 
p?v?rka? /
In narratives or one in a story-telling situation, each previous verb is 
repeated as a converb as in your example. In this context too the 
completive AUX is needed.
Further, the use of /mutalil/ (first) implies, contextually, that ?going 
to temple? and ?performing pooja? are preliminary conditions ?to go to 
the shop?. Therefore, with reference to ?/mutalil?/, there should be 
another adverb like, for example, ?pi?aku? ?afterwards? to finish the 
proposition in harmony.
Your example b) may be starred as you suggest. This is not because the 
?subjects? are not identical. But as I mentioned above, pragmatically 
and semantically the previous actions have to be marked in completive 
aspect.
The example c) with INF and the particle ?um (ceyy-a-um) raises another 
problem as this construction implies a completely a different meaning. 
In Tamil, INF-um implies actions of ?immediate sequence? or ?immediate 
consequence?, for example,
p?lis varavum tiru?a???ivi?????as the police arrived the thief ran away?
p?lis
varavum
tiru?a?
??ivi????
police
come.INF.um
thief
run.AUX.3MS
To conclude tentatively, in my opinion, all the three examples a, b & c 
are ?morpho syntactically? correct. However, at the discourse pragmatic 
level they sound problematic. I am afraid that the sentences are a 
perfect translation into Tamil of some English examples. Please forgive 
me if I am wrong.
Typologically in tail-head linkage constructions, languages use CONVERB 
constructions. Nevertheless, the CONV in Tamil has an array of meanings 
depending on the discourse context.
Thanks for raising this interesting question. This deserves honestly 
more corpus-based studies.
With my Best regards.
Murugaiyan
Le 23/09/2021 ? 23:03, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan via INDOLOGY a ?crit?:
