Dear colleagues
I would like to share details of my recently published monograph. Please consider recommending to your libraries:
Rethinking ?Classical Yoga? and Buddhism: Meditation, Metaphors and Materiality (2021)
Bloomsbury Advances in Religious Studies, Bloomsbury Publishing
This monograph employs conceptual metaphor theory to investigate
philosophy of mind and the materiality of Hindu and Buddhist
meditation systems in three 4th-5th-century CE Sanskrit meditation
treatises: the P?ta?jalayoga??stra, the Abhidharmako?abh??ya and
the Yog?c?rabh?mi??stra. The book also challenges the colonial historical
framing of these and other religio-philosophical texts as 'classical'
and considers how emic labels from South Asian culture can provide
more appropriate and useful categorisations.
https://www.bloomsbury.com/uk/rethinking-classical-yoga-and-buddhism-9781350229990/
There is also an online book launch discussion on November 12th, details of which can be found here: https://bit.ly/3mRcM4f
Best wishes
Dr. Karen O'Brien-Kop (FHEA)
Lecturer in Asian Religions and Ethics
Convenor Y1: BA Philosophy, Religion & Ethics; BA Philosophy
Howard 112, School of Humanities
University of Roehampton, London SW15 5PH
New book here<https://www.bloomsbury.com/uk/rethinking-classical-yoga-and-buddhism-9781350229990/> Rethinking ?Classical Yoga? and Buddhism: Meditation, Metaphors, Materiality (Bloomsbury 2021)
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended solely for the addressee and may also be privileged or exempt from disclosure under applicable law. If you are not the addressee, or have received this e-mail in error, please notify the sender immediately, delete it from your system and do not copy, disclose or otherwise act upon any part of this email or its attachments.
Internet communications are not guaranteed to be secure or virus-free. University of Roehampton does not accept responsibility for any loss arising from unauthorised access to, or interference with, any Internet communications by any third party, or from the transmission of any viruses.
Any opinion or other information in this e-mail or its attachments that does not relate to the business of University of Roehampton is personal to the sender and is not given or endorsed by University of Roehampton.
University of Roehampton is the trading name of Roehampton University, a company limited by guarantee incorporated in England under number 5161359. Registered Office: Grove House, Roehampton Lane, London SW15 5PJ. An exempt charity.
