[INDOLOGY] Hindu Philosophy sessions at the American Academy of
 Religion
[with apologies for cross-posting]
Dear Colleagues,
I'm pleased to announce that the Hindu Philosophy unit of the American Academy of Religion is hosting or co-sponsoring several sessions at the upcoming annual meeting (Nov. 20-23). All of the sessions will be virtual (though conference registration is required). Please see below for details; note that the schedule follows Central Standard Time.
Best wishes,
Michael S. Allen
Co-chair (with Parimal Patil), Hindu Philosophy Unit
Assistant Professor
Department of Religious Studies
University of Virginia
AV21-218
Hindu Philosophy Unit and Jain Studies Unit and Philosophy of Religion Unit
Theme: Jain Philosophy: Perspectives on Non-One-Sidedness
Sunday, November 21, 12:30 PM-2:30 PM (Virtual)
Michael Allen, University of Virginia, Presiding
This panel is conceived as an opportunity to assess the contemporary relevance of studying the Jain theories of perspectives, especially in the field of philosophy of religion. The theory of viewpoints allows Jain authors to classify the metaphysics of their contemporaries in relation to their own position through a unique method of categorization. In this categorization, ones decision for a certain kind of metaphysics directly informs ones liberating practices as well as this-worldly oriented religious activities. Such a comprehensive type of classification might aid the formation of a more inclusive philosophy of religion, inasmuch as it is meaningful for both theist and atheist as well as philosophical and religious traditions.
Ana Bajzelj, University of California, Riverside
Being in Time: The Tattv?rthas?tra and Its Commentaries on Non-One-Sidedness and Temporality
Anil Mundra, University of Chicago
Contradiction and Common Sense in Haribhadras?ri?s Victory-Flag of Non-One-Sidedness
Marie-Helene Gorisse, Ghent University
Is R?va?a the Universal Emperor? Questions of Reference in Prabh?candra?s Semantic Viewpoint
Lynna Dhanani, University of California, Davis
The Anek?ntat? of Anek?ntav?da: Dialetic of Non-One-Sidedness in Hemacandra?s Philosophical Hymns
Responding
Parimal G. Patil, Harvard University
AV21-413
Hindu Philosophy Unit
Theme: New Approaches to Advaita Ved?nta
Sunday, November 21, 5:00 PM-6:30 PM (Virtual)
Elaine Fisher, Stanford University, Presiding
Advaita Ved?nta is probably the best-known tradition of Hindu philosophy, yet there remain significant gaps in our knowledge of its history. The three papers in this session offer new approaches to the study of the tradition in the second millennium. The first two papers draw attention to vernacular works of Advaita Ved?nta, from 12th-century Maharashtra to 17th-century Rajasthan. The third paper focuses on the 18th-century Tantric intellectual Bh?skarar?ya and his creative, critical engagement with Advaita Ved?nta.
Tyler Williams, University of Chicago
?The Shastras Are Well Water?: Re-writing Shastric Conventions for Advaita and Yoga
Jason Schwartz, University of California, Santa Barbara
An Elephant Let Loose in the City of the Gandharvas: The Vernacularization of Scholastic Philosophy in Early Medieval Maharashtra.
Tarinee Awasthi, Cornell University
More Advaitin than the Advaita Ved?ntin: Bh?skarar?ya?s References to the Yogav?si??ha
AV22-212
Buddhist Philosophy Unit and Hindu Philosophy Unit and Religion in South Asia Unit
Theme: Productive Influences between Hindu and Buddhist Thought
Monday, November 22, 12:30 PM-2:30 PM (Virtual)
Leah Kalmanson, University of North Texas, Presiding
The few hundreds of years bookending the turn of the second millennium CE saw a golden age of Indian dialectics. A period of highly intertextual philosophical exchange and debate, this era was incredibly intellectually productive. Not only were there intense debates raging between philosophical schools, but within them as well. It was the friction of these exchanges that defined a forging crucible, helping to further solidify the Indian dar?anasand Buddhism in contradistinction to each other. Indeed, it would be the last formative event of Indian Buddhism until it all put disappeared from the sub-continent shortly thereafter. The proposed panel examines the exchange between Buddhist and Hindu philosophical schools of this era through the lens of their productivity. That is, each paper examines the manner in which these confrontations lead to a more nuanced articulation of both Buddhist and Hindu philosophy.
Nilanjan Das, University College London
A Reappraisal of Uddyotakara and Buddhists on Universals
John Taber, University of New Mexico
Apoha for Beginners: Dign?ga and Kum?rila
Jed Forman, University of California, Berkeley
Effable or Ineffable? Ratnak?rti?s Differing Rebuttals to M?m?m?akas and Naiy?yikas
Alex Watson, Ashoka University
Is Recognition Capable of Refuting Momentariness? Jayanta?s Critique
Amit Chaturvedi, University of Hong Kong
Tracing the Evolution of Buddhist and Ny?ya Views on Non-conceptual Perception
AV22-312
Hindu Philosophy Unit
Theme: Udayana on Buddhist Idealism: A Philosophical Roundtable
Monday, November 22, 3:00 PM-4:30 PM (Virtual)
Parimal G. Patil, Harvard University, Presiding
The philosopher Udayana (10th/11th c.) was a leading representative of the Ny?ya-Vai?e?ika tradition and a fierce critic of Buddhism. This session brings together several scholars to discuss and debate Udayana?s arguments against idealism, as presented in the ?tma-tattva-viveka, section 2 (?On the [Buddhist] Refutation of External Objects?). The goal is to create a space for lively and rigorous discussion among the panelists and with the audience. A handout with the original Sanskrit and an English translation of selections from Udayana?s text will be provided.
Panelists
Nilanjan Das, University College London
Davey Tomlinson, Villanova University
Responding
Catherine Prueitt, University of British Columbia
Jed Forman, University of California, Berkeley
Business Meeting
Michael Allen, University of Virginia, Presiding
