[INDOLOGY] Journal Asiatique
References: <32FEEA46-34EA-42E8-973E-89AAC2C02BD3@uniroma1.it>
 <CADKD_zj1YsDjdaFaDAbkyac_OYp9nXYDcqTmR9spn9sEUS07xw@mail.gmail.com>
 <55C65AFA-FBDF-4E26-AE9D-717FA4DDBCD0@uniroma1.it>
 <DM6PR11MB439686547B3CC8968C451703A18A9@DM6PR11MB4396.namprd11.prod.outlook.com>
 <445A8FB9-BEFF-4588-A482-C8B433F11943@uniroma1.it>
 <186068068.1328103.1635937449307.JavaMail.zimbra@college-de-france.fr>
I should say, relative to my earlier comment about the Soci?t? asiatique, that I have always found Mme Amina Abudureheman to be as cordial and helpful as she can possibly be within the limits of the resources available to her.
Matthew Kapstein
Directeur d'?tudes, ?m?rite
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Paris
Numata Visiting Professor of Buddhist Studies,
The University of Chicago
Sent: Wednesday, November 3, 2021 6:04 AM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Journal Asiatique
Dear Colleagues,
Amina Abudureheman, Librarian at the Soci?t? asiatique de Paris, confirmed that digitization of the Journal asiatique is under process.
It will be on line on the portal Persee
https://www.persee.fr/
The program has been delayed because of the Covid crises and the fact that the staff is reduced to only one person, Amina, with help of some volunteers, rarer nowadays due to the sanitary situation.
I have no information though on the date on the publication online of the Journal.
For further information, the better would be to contact the Soci?t? Asiatique.
Here?s the email of the library : biblio.soasiatique at gmail.com<mailto:biblio.soasiatique at gmail.com>
With best wishes
Caroline Riberaigua
Ing?nieur de recherche
Institut d'?tudes indiennes (P?le Mondes Asiatiques)
Institut des civilisations du Coll?ge de France /CNRS UMS 2409
52 rue Cardinal Lemoine
75005 PARIS
Tel : 01 44 27 18 10
De: "Raffaele Torella via INDOLOGY" <indology at list.indology.info>
?: "Matthew Kapstein" <mkapstei at uchicago.edu>
Envoy?: Mardi 2 Novembre 2021 14:36:07
Objet: Re: [INDOLOGY] Journal Asiatique
I cannot but subscribe to Matthew?s remark. I still wonder why the digitalization  of JA (or at least its public access) stopped at the 1939 issue?
Finally, I resolved to ask Antonella, the wonderful librarian of our Department, and received the PDF in fifteen minutes.
All the best, and many thanks to the colleagues who were willing to help,
Raffaele
Il giorno 1 nov 2021, alle ore 21:25, Matthew Kapstein <mkapstei at uchicago.edu<mailto:mkapstei at uchicago.edu>> ha scritto:
Dear Raffaele,
The situation is easily explained:
The fossilized institution known as the Soci?t? Asiatique has yet to be made aware of the
digital age.
best regards,
Matthew
Matthew Kapstein
Directeur d'?tudes, ?m?rite
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Paris
Numata Visiting Professor of Buddhist Studies,
The University of Chicago
Sent: Monday, November 1, 2021 2:52 PM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Journal Asiatique
Dear Charles,
thank you very much for your offer.
Being visiting professor at the Jagiellonian in this semester, I am currently away from the library of my Department. I could easily ask our excellent librarian to provide me with a PDF of Renou?s article of 1953. But, in more general terms, I would like to know if (in some corner of the web) the collection of such an important journal can be found, or if, now and in the future, I should only rely on its hard copies.
Warmly,
Raffaele
Il giorno 1 nov 2021, alle ore 16:14, Charles DiSimone <disimone at alumni.stanford.edu<mailto:disimone at alumni.stanford.edu>> ha scritto:
Dear Prof. Torella,
I had occasion to search for a many decades old issue of Journal Asiatique just this past week. Like you, I was not able to find any issues from between 1940?1999 easily available online. However, I was pleased to learn that my university library at Ghent seems to have an extensive collection of back issues and they swiftly scanned the article I needed. If the library in Rome does not have the issue you need in its collection please let me know and I will have it scanned for you.
With my kind regards,
Charles
Dr. Charles DiSimone
Department of Languages and Cultures
Ghent University
On Mon, Nov 1, 2021 at 4:01 PM Raffaele Torella via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Dear Colleagues,
is there a site from which I can download post-1939 issues of Journal Asiatique?
Grazie mille,
Raffaele Torella
Prof. Raffaele Torella
Chair of Sanskrit
Sapienza University of Rome
https://wwwuniroma1.academia.edu/raffaeletorella
Le informazioni contenute in questo messaggio di posta elettronica sono strettamente riservate e indirizzate esclusivamente al destinatario. Si prega di non leggere, fare copia, inoltrare a terzi o conservare tale messaggio se non si ? il legittimo destinatario dello stesso. Qualora tale messaggio sia stato ricevuto per errore, si prega di restituirlo al mittente e di cancellarlo permanentemente dal proprio computer.
The information contained in this e mail message is strictly confidential and intended for the use of the addressee only.  If you are not the intended recipient, please do not read, copy, forward or store it on your computer. If you have received the message in error, please forward it back to the sender and delete it permanently from your computer system.
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
https://list.indology.info/mailman/listinfo/indology
Le informazioni contenute in questo messaggio di posta elettronica sono strettamente riservate e indirizzate esclusivamente al destinatario. Si prega di non leggere, fare copia, inoltrare a terzi o conservare tale messaggio se non si ? il legittimo destinatario dello stesso. Qualora tale messaggio sia stato ricevuto per errore, si prega di restituirlo al mittente e di cancellarlo permanentemente dal proprio computer.
The information contained in this e mail message is strictly confidential and intended for the use of the addressee only.  If you are not the intended recipient, please do not read, copy, forward or store it on your computer. If you have received the message in error, please forward it back to the sender and delete it permanently from your computer system.
Le informazioni contenute in questo messaggio di posta elettronica sono strettamente riservate e indirizzate esclusivamente al destinatario. Si prega di non leggere, fare copia, inoltrare a terzi o conservare tale messaggio se non si ? il legittimo destinatario dello stesso. Qualora tale messaggio sia stato ricevuto per errore, si prega di restituirlo al mittente e di cancellarlo permanentemente dal proprio computer.
The information contained in this e mail message is strictly confidential and intended for the use of the addressee only.  If you are not the intended recipient, please do not read, copy, forward or store it on your computer. If you have received the message in error, please forward it back to the sender and delete it permanently from your computer system.
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
https://list.indology.info/mailman/listinfo/indology
