PhD Programm in Transcultural Studies (open also for Indologists)
The Graduate Programme for Transcultural Studies welcomes applications for eight doctoral scholarships. The application system is now open until March 15, 2013.
The programme offers a monthly scholarship of 1.200 Euro. It further supports scholarship holders in framing their research through advanced courses and individual supervision and mentoring. The scholarships start in the winter term 2013/14 and are granted for two years with the possibility of an extension for an additional year. Half of them are reserved for young scholars from Asia.
Applicants are expected to propose a doctoral project contributing to the general research framework of the Cluster of Excellence ?Asia and Europe in a Global Context. The Dynamics of Transculturality?. They must hold an M.A. or equivalent in a discipline of the humanities or social sciences with an above-average grade. Applications, including a CV, a letter of intention, a project proposal, a schedule for the dissertation, and recommendations are accepted until March 15, 2013, via the Online Application System.
After an initial evaluation and selection, applicants will be asked to get in contact with possible supervisors at the Cluster of Excellence to discuss their project proposal. The most promising applicants will be invited to present their projects to the selection committee in Heidelberg. Subsequently the scholarship holders will be selected.
For more information on the scholarships visit the website of the Graduate Programme for Transcultural Studies or read the full call for applications (PDF). For further questions send an e-mail to: application-gpts at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de.
Prof. Dr. Axel Michaels
Acting Director Excellence Cluster "Asia and Europe in a Global Context", Sprecher des SFB 619 ("Ritualdynamik")
Universit?t Heidelberg, S?dasien-Institut, Im Neuenheimer Feld 330, D-69120 Heidelberg
http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/ -- www.ritualdynamik.uni-hd.de -- http://www.sai.uni-heidelberg.de/abt/IND/index.html
Emails: sek-michaels at uni-heidelberg.de (SAI office) -- Axel.Michaels at urz.uni-heidelberg.de (official and personal) -- michaels at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de (Cluster mail)
