From ashok.aklujkar at GMAIL.COM  Tue Jan 29 13:34:23 2013
From: ashok.aklujkar at GMAIL.COM (Ashok Aklujkar)
Date: Tue, 29 Jan 13 05:34:23 -0800
Subject: For those who may wish to note the contents
Message-ID: <161227098712.23782.742341597865846382.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

A Festschrift for Dr. Trichur S. Rukmani has recently been published. The publication details of the volume are:
(Title) Classical and Contemporary Issues in Indian Studies: Essays in Honour of Trichur S. Rukmani. 
(eds) P. Pratap Kumar and Jonathan Duquette. 
(Publisher) New Delhi: D.K. Printworld.

The contents are: 

Preface    
Acknowledgements    
Prof. Trichur S. Rukmani: A Biographical Profile    
Introduction  
Part One
Issues in Interpreting the Yoga Tradition
1. Reading the Fourth Pada of Patanjali?s Yoga-Sutra 
? Christopher Key Chapple
2. Rethinking Prajna: Yoga-Sutra 1.49 under a Philosophical Magnifying Glass
? Daniel Raveh
3. Moving Towards a Non-Dualistic Interpretation of Yoga: The Integration of Spirit (Purusha) and Matter (Prakriti) in the Yoga-Sutra
? Ian Whicher
4. Yoga-Sutras II.25 and the Conundrum of Kaivalya 
? Frederick M. Smith
5. Yoga?s Theism: A New Way of Understanding God 
? Gerald James Larson
Part Two
Issues in Interpreting the Vedanta Tradition
6. Advaita Vedanta Insights
? John Grimes
7. Shankara granthah katham otah protash ca? 
? Vidyasankar Sundaresan
8. Appaya Dikshita on Avidyanivrtti: A Critique in Siddhantaleshasangraha
? Jonathan Duquette, K. Ramasubramanian
9. The Gaudiya Challenge to Advaita Vedanta and Classical Yoga: Re-figuring Models of Embodiment and Personhood
? Barbara A. Holdrege
Part Three
Issues of Continuity and Compatibility
10. Sankarsha-kanda: A Victim in Mimamsa Madhyama-vyayoga
? Ashok Aklujkar
11. Linguistic and Cosmic Powers: The Concept of Shakti in the Philosophies of Bhartrhari and Abhinavagupta
? Sthaneshwar Timalsina
12. Freedom in the Bhagavad-Gita: An Analysis of Buddhi and Sattva Categories
? P. Pratap Kumar
Part Four
Issues of Narrative, Philosophical Discourse and Grammar
13. Forging the Fate of Karna: Observations on the Critical Edition of the Mahabharata
? Edeltraud Harzer
14. Truth and Power in Sanskrit Philosophical Discourse 
? David Peter Lawrence
15. Ramayana Notes III: The Past Active Participle 
? John Brockington
Part Five
Issues of Brahmanical Intellectuals, Ascetics and Renunciants
16. Some Notes on the Difficulties in Defining Intellectual Opponents in the Mahabharata
? Gregory Bailey
17. Renunciation and Celebration: Ascetics in the Temple Life of Medieval Tamil Nadu
? Leslie C. Orr
Part Six
Issues in Contemporary Hinduism: Environment, Non-violence, Gender,
Faith and Syncretism
18. Hinduism and the Environment: Then and Now
? Georges A. James
19. Earth, Water, and Dharmic Ecology: Perspectives from the Svadhyaya Practitioners
? Pankaj Jain
20. Technology, Violence, and Non-violence: A Gandhian Type of Response
?  Carl Olson
21. Reviewing Hinduism: Religion, Violence, and Non-Violence
? Madhav M. Deshpande
22. The Role of Government Education in the Lives of Females in Rural Chhattisgarh
? Ramdas Lamb
23. On Being Hindu: Some Autobiographical Reflections
? Acharya Vidyasagar V.V. Raman
24. Ziyaratu Darshanam: A South Indian Pilgrimage Beyond the Boundaries
? Afsar Mohammad
Contributors    
Appointments and Publications    
Index



-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20130129/8f67db11/attachment.htm>

