[INDOLOGY] Yves Ramseier - a short obituary
I am deeply shocked to learn about the early disappearance of Yves, this
most sympathetic and remarkable personality whom I first got to know when
he was scientific assistant at the Universit? de Lausanne during my stay
there (as PhD student) in 1990-91.
Later on we met again in India when he had already come to Pune to help
prepare "the first international conference on Bhartrhari" organised by
Saroja Bhate and Johannes Bronkhorst. Apart from practical matters in
connection with the conference he was much occupied with perfecting his
Bibliography on Bhartrhari and tried to make full use of the occasion of
being now in India and finding perhaps rare and unexpected references.
One place, he insisted, was particularly important to check out, and he
wanted me to come with him on this mission: he wanted to know whether
Rajneesh (who had died a few years earlier under the name Osho) had perhaps
occasionally in one of his numerous books referred to Bhartrhari. After
all, Rajneesh had always claimed to have had a good training in philosophy
and his books and speeches were teeming with references to Jesus, Shankara,
Mahatma Gandhi, Gorakhnath, Kabir, Gurdjeff and also Patanjali [but this
must be not the grammarian but the one involved in yoga]. When we finally
found a moment to go the Osho ashram in the Koregaon area of Pune we were
well received in the ashram -- full of "western" followers -- but soon
found out that even the most literary minded among Rajneesh' disciples
could not confirm he had ever read a reference to Bhartrhari. We were ready
to believe him on his word (rather than starting to sift through the pile
of Rajneesh's books that had been made available) and politely declined the
offer to see a filmed speech of Rajneesh on imminent nuclear disasters that
would destroy the world. The end conclusion was that the Bibliography on
Bhartrhari did not need to mention any book of Rajneesh (or Osho).
After the first version of 1993 Yves Ramseier produced an updated and much
extended bibliography on Bhartrhari which was published in Bhartrhari:
Language, Thought and Reality (ed. Mithilesh Chaturvedi), Delhi, 2009.
The Word Index to the Prasastapadabhasya (Delhi, 1994) already mentioned
also contains an "edition" based on 12 existing editions of the
Prasastapadabhasya.
Jan Houben
On 27 May 2013 13:32, Eltschinger, Vincent
<Vincent.Eltschinger at oeaw.ac.at>wrote:
