[INDOLOGY] mAtAjI
Here, Dr. Resnick arise a very important point: let me try to help below:"Do we know the history of the Hindu custom of addressing women as? mAtA or?mAtAji?
Some Hindu traditions quote CANakya/KauTilya as follows:?
mAtRvat para-dAreSu, para-dravyeSu loSTravat, Atmavat sarva-bhUteSu, yaH paZyati sa paNDitaH
"A pandita is he who sees others' wives as mother, others' property as dirt, all beings as oneself."
Yet typically itihasa-purana texts do not show men addressing others' wives, and certainly not women in general, as "mother."In my sincere attempt to investigate the actual age of the Bhagavata tradition I can ?find as a possible ??intertextuality?source of this ?Canakya verse, the follow Bhagavatam sloka, that tends to show the social use of "mother" word ?in the puranic tradition.(See Arganis, (2001) Rescantado el Srimada Bhagavatam de las obras de Chankya. Consejo Editorial del Estado. Saltillo, Coah. M?xico. p. 66)??r?mad Bh?gavatam?4.16.17m?tr?-bhaktih??para-str?s?upatny?m?ardha?iv?tmanah?praj?su?pitr?vat?snigdhah?ki?karo?brahma-v?din?mSYNONYMSm?tr?-bhaktih????as?respectful?as?one is?to?his mother;?para-str?s?u???to?other women;?patny?m??to?his own wife;?ardhah??? half;?iva?? like;??tmanah??? of his body;?praj?su?? unto the citizens;pitr?-vat??
 like?a?father;?snigdhah??? affectionate;?ki?karah??? servant;?brahma-v?din?m?? of the devotees who preach the glories of the Lord.TRANSLATIONThe King will respect all women as if they were his own mother, and he will treat his own wife as the other half of his body. He will be just like an affectionate father to his citizens, and he will treat himself as the most obedient servant of the devotees, who always preach the glories of the Lord.Regards
Dr. Horacio Francisco Arganis Ju?rez
Lic. M.A. Ph. D. Catedr?tico Investigador de la Universidad
Internacional Euroamericana.
Departamento de Filosof?a y Religi?n Comparada.
www.uie.edu.es
De: Howard Resnick <hr at ivs.edu>
Asunto: Re: [INDOLOGY] mAtAjI
A: "Suresh Kolichala" <suresh.kolichala at gmail.com>
Fecha: jueves, 23 de mayo de 2013, 14:16
Thank you, Suresh. In saying that the custom is pan-South Asian, may we assume this includes Muslims? Jains? Indian Christians? Others??Thanks again,Howard
On May 23, 2013, at 6:58 AM, Suresh Kolichala <suresh.kolichala at gmail.com> wrote:
This phenomenon is pan-South Asian. It is very common to address women as 'mother' 'maa/amma/aayi' and men as 'father' 'baapu, ayya, appa'. It is also common across linguistic families to address sons and daughters endearingly as 'mother' and 'father'.
Suresh.
On Thu, May 23, 2013 at 9:31 AM, Howard Resnick <hr at ivs.edu> wrote:
Thank you, Matthew, for raising these key questions. Gaudiya [Bengali] Vaishnava communities, expanding around the world, typically follow and teach this "rule" of addressing women as 'mother.' ?Are they merely propagating a Bengali Hindu custom? Or does it include Bengali Muslims? Is the custom, to any degree, pan-Hindu? pan-South Asian?
? ? ? ? Thanks to Jonathan and Somadeva for their information.
Howard
On May 23, 2013, at 4:33 AM, Matthew Kapstein <mkapstei at UCHICAGO.EDU> wrote:
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info
