From jemhouben at gmail.com  Thu Jun 20 13:11:32 2013
From: jemhouben at gmail.com (Jan E.M. Houben)
Date: Thu, 20 Jun 13 15:11:32 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] New publication: Signless signification in Ancient India
Message-ID: <CAGCGLoAtMQaCRN3ymDf8bcT4vqLpWRuta_Odo+Mwv9hr0yxdeA@mail.gmail.com>

Signless Signification in Ancient India and Beyond

Edited by Tiziana Pontillo and Maria Piera Candotti



PRICE:  ?60.00  /  $99.00

[For those for whom (like me) this book looks interesting but too
expensive,
the informative page
http://www.anthempress.com/signless-signification-in-ancient-india-and-beyond
gives a button: "Recommend this title to your library"]

About This Book



The collected essays in this book are the result of a series of workshops
held at the University of Cagliari in Italy. In this work, the authors aim
at reconstructing the evolution of a key concept of traditional Indian
grammar: P??ini?s zero. The book investigates how certain patterns of
description account for exceptions in the currently presupposed one-to-one
symmetry between the semantic and the phono-morphological level of
language. This work also deals with some powerful mechanisms of rule
extension, which are valuable for different contexts of rule arrangement,
such as the ritual model. The interpretative model laid down in the
introduction proves strong and suggestive enough to allow subsequent
articles in the book to make incursions into other traditions and cultures.
The potentialities of aniconic expression in the artistic field are
explored, together with the outcomes of this theory.


Readership:  This book will be useful to grammarians and students at an
advanced research level who are interested in metaphoric signification and
the concept of ?zero? in linguistics.






Author [Editors] Information


Tiziana Pontillo is a teacher and research fellow in the Faculty of Arts
and Humanities at the University of Cagliari, Italy.

Maria Piera Candotti is privat-docent of Sanskrit at the University of
Lausanne, Switzerland.





Table of Contents


Preface ? Giuliano Boccali; PART I: TECHNICAL AND SPECULATIVE REFLECTIONS
ON SIGNLESS SIGNIFICATION: 1. Much Ado about Nothing: Unsystematic Notes on
???nya? ? Alberto Pelissero; 2. When One Thing Applies More than Once:
?tantra? and ?prasa?ga? in ?rautas?tra, M?m??s? and Grammar ? Elisa
Freschi, Tiziana Pontillo; 3. The Earlier P??inian Tradition on the
Imperceptible Sign ? Maria Piera Candotti, Tiziana Pontillo; 4. The
Infinite Possibilities of Life: Interpretations of the ???nyat?? in the
Thinking of Daisaku Ikeda ? Paolo Corda; PART II: REFLECTIONS ON SIGNLESS
SIGNIFICATION IN LITERATURE AND ARTS: 5. Presences and Absences in Indian
Visual Arts: Ideologies and Events ? Cinzia Pieruccini; 6. Rethinking the
Question of Images (Aniconism vs. Iconism) in the Indian History of Art ?
Mimma Congedo, Paola M. Rossi; 7. Denotation ?in absentia? in Literary
Language: The Case of Aristophanic Comedy ? Patrizia Mureddu; 8. The Birth
of the Buddha in the Early Buddhist Art Schools ? Ruben Fais; 9.
Untranslatable Denotations: Notes on Music Meaning Through Cultures ? Prema
Bhat, Paolo Bravi, Ignazio Macchiarella; Summary of Papers


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20130620/c5e3902c/attachment.htm>

