[INDOLOGY] mnemotechnics and visualisation in Indian	traditional	recitation techniques
Three
postures ?y?ma, vi?rambha and ?k?epa corresponding to the pronunciation of
the
acute, grave and circumflex were taught by ?gvedic ?c?ryas along with 
practical
demonstration at least till the sixties.
These
were universal that is to say have been adopted by the ?rya Sam?jis too. In
fact 
my
experience is from the ?rya Sam?ja. See the RV Pr?ti??khya 3.1. But the 
verse
will give no idea of the rigorous training. Maharashtrian and Arya Sam?ji 
trainers
of North India are not symbiotically related, at least not more than 
Roman Catholics and Presbyterians. 
The
places of articulation are variously demonstrated but not through dia-
grammes
as in the Universities. At least a few decades ago Myanmar had 
kept
alive a method of demonstration through the palms and fingers. These
are
not unknown in India.
As
far as I remember this topic came to be discussed in this forum a few years
ago.
Best 
DB ???
 From: Viktoria Lysenko <vglyssenko at yandex.ru>
Sent: Sunday, 16 June 2013 4:22 PM
[INDOLOGY] mnemotechnics and visualisation in Indian traditional recitation techniques
Dear colleagues, especially those of you who had undergone a traditional brahmanic education,
I would like to know whether any visual images, or interiour visualization techniques are involved in the traditional memorisation of Vedic or other texts? Or this memorisation is purely acoustic and dyachronic? How the memory of traditional pandita is organized, is there any spacial structurization?
I ask these questions in order to better understand the role of oral tradition and alphabetic writing in arising of "atomistic approach" to speech in indian phonetics and grammar.
May be, you can suggest some works which could help me.
Thank you in advance!
?
Victoria Lysenko, dr.hab.philos.
Head, Department for Oriental philosophy studies
Institute of Philosophy, Russian Academy of Sciences
Moscow, Volkhonka, 14
Professor, Russian State University for Humanities
Russia
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info
