[INDOLOGY] question for European Indologists
Thank you, Paul, and thanks too to Dominik for their accurate accounts of Sanskrit teaching at Oxford. Now that I am a Nestor of Indology I could mumble on endlessly; so let me confine myself to a few main points and an anecdote.
When I began to study Sanskrit under Thomas Burrow at Oxford in 1959, we were in a sense still in the 19th century: Sanskrit study was an offshoot of the classics. I don't think that anyone had ever taken the Sanskrit BA who had not first studied Latin and Greek for many years. The syllabus mirrored this. I have never bothered to study the detail, but I believe that the syllabus mostly went back far beyond the long reign of Burrow; indeed, its general method and structure were probably the same as when the course was instituted, in the 1880s! Not surprisingly, the "special subject" in the comparative philology of Sanskrit and Greek (and Avestan too!) was a popular choice.
When I became Boden Professor, in 1976, the big shift in clientele was well under way; increasingly, our students came from other backgrounds than the classics. Indeed, within a few years a classicist became a rarity. Later, Jim Benson steered through a reform by which one could do a "joint BA degree" combining Sanskrit and classics -- a very tough course, but it has found some takers.
My first achievement was to abolish the compulsory paper in Sanskrit composition: for 3 hours one had to translate a passage of English prose (typically Samuel Johnson or Edward Gibbon) into Sanskrit, and that without the use of a dictionary or any other work of reference. And of course I had to spend many hours training students in this bizarre skill, which meant also creating models of how I thought it could best be done. This led on to my managing to institute exams in which students were allowed to use dictionaries! I am sure this existed elsewhere in the world, but I think not at Oxford. I soon found imitators.
To accommodate the great range of students and interests for whom we now had to cater, if the subject was to survive, I had to make the syllabus far more flexible. But first of all, if the students were to survive the first few months, I had to find a way of introducing the subject in a way which did not bore everyone (myself included) rigid. At the same time, I was desperate to "Indianise" the syllabus. Perry, tightly modelled on Latin primers, had to go. My great friend Michael Coulson, who had persuaded me to study Sanskrit in the first place, had taken a post at Edinburgh and was coping with the same frustrations. He was one of the most intelligent people I have ever encountered. Luckily, he was composing his own primer (which he had to sell to the publishers for ?500).
His first decision was, as early in his course as possible, to use only real Sanskrit sentences culled from texts. This also meant teaching a homogeneous form of Sanskrit.  He was interested in kaavya, particularly plays. So that is the Sanskrit he decided to teach. It also meant biting the bullet of using a large vocabulary. These two features explain why the book is not popular with teachers who are confident that the Sanskrit they write themselves is just as good as that of the original authors.
Coulson's book has another massive virtue, which so far as I know (I am not up to date) remains unparallelled. The facts of Sanskrit phonology and morphology are many, but mastering them is a largely brainless matter of rote learning, and if the primers do not teach the same facts, they must be wrong! Coulson alone, however, teaches syntax, idiom and style. In particular, his treatment of nominal compounds is masterful and invaluable. I think that there are even established scholars who would benefit from studying it. I should add that to widen students' experience we do read epic Sanskrit (Nala and Giitaa) with them almost from the outset.
Tragically, Coulson died and I had to see his book through the press. Jim Benson helped a lot with the later editions. He is a great vaiyaakara.nika. Paa.nini had long been on the Oxford syllabus; in the spirit of Coulson we increased that to a whole paper. At the end of the course, I would ask students which part of it they had enjoyed most. I would like to put on record that every year I got the same answer: the Paa.nini paper. We teach enough of the subject to allow students to master something complex and rewarding.
Finally, my anecdote. Over 20 years ago, SOAS was conducting a thorough internal review of its own departments, with one external assessor on each committee. I was asked to be the assessor for the Sanskrit department. They worked me extremely hard, making me lead off the questioning at each session. At the session on research I was told to question Dr Renate S?hnen, who had reported that her main project was translating Stenzler into English. (I wonder if she remembers this.) I politely asked her why she had chosen this project, saying, "Sanskrit, of course, does not change; but what about pedagogy?" Instead of replying, she immediately left the room; she preferred no doubt to answer by action rather than words. I am happy to learn from this correspondence that she succeeded, and SOAS has backed her.
Richard Gombrich    
On 28 Jun 2013, at 11:27, Paul Gerstmayr wrote:
