So the original meaning of p?rpp?? must be reconstructed to be 'one who praises/adores/worships' or in other words, 'a priest'. It does not have to be restricted to refer to a brahmin. From the times of Classical Tamil poetry till today, potters have been serving as priests in Tamil Nadu. (See Na??i?ai 293.)  Some of the earliest writings of Tamil are found on potsherds.   One of the Classical Tamil poets was a potter woman named Ve??ik Kuyattiy?r. Potters have been known for their literacy and served as pre-eminent scribes/accountants during historical times and were even employed by brahmin sabhas. There are inscriptions which show they signed for illiterate brahmin priests. There is also a literary instance of a potter serving as an emissary carrying messages on palm leaf in the Peru?katai, the Tamil version of the B?hatkath?. In this, a potter named C?taka? serves as an emissary going back and forth between the ministers, Y?ki (<Skt. Yaugandh?r?ya?a) and Uruma??uv? (<Skt. Ruma?v?n) like a shuttle in a loom. (See Vattavak???am 4.36-44) and later obtains the title 'Peru?kuyam' (meaning eminent potter) and two villages/towns from Udaya?a (Vattavak???am 9.47-48).


In my opinion, p?rpp?? in Akan????u 337 was most likely a potter priest and not a brahmin. 


Regards,
Palaniappan


-----Original Message-----
From: George Hart <glhart at berkeley.edu>
To: Indology <indology at list.indology.info>
Sent: Sun, Jun 9, 2013 9:50 am
Subject: Re: [INDOLOGY] dacoits, bandits, thugs and other unsavory characters


Thieves are quite common in the Sangam works (probably 1st 2 centuries CE), especially in the P?lai poems, where they inhabit the wilderness and ambush travelers.  Here's my translation of a poem from the Akan?n??u.  George




337. P?lai
The hero, who, in a time before left [the heroine] to acquire wealth and returned, speaks to his heart which is urging him [to set out again] to get wealth.


?Her body is the color of a shoot moistened by the rain
budding on a high branch of a y? tree on the hillside,
and her large, cool eyes strive with one another.
Leaving her to feel the pain of loneliness,
staying here is not a pleasant thing.
Wealth is being there, with her,? you thought, and you returned to her
while I stayed alone in the burning jungle abandoned by rain.
There, where the many little hills look like rows of donkeys of salt merchants,
a Brahmin came who often took messages back and forth,
his stomach shriveled from not eating, grasping a rolled-up palm leaf.
Cruel thieves, weapons in hand, thought he was holding gold
and killed him at once, pointlessly.  When they saw how poor he was,
wearing rags instead of decent clothes, with their arrow shafts bloody,
they snapped their fingers in frustration and went away.
A male jackal on the path among the striped hemp plants found him, 
chewed on his intestines that hung out bleeding profusely,
and then howled, staying in the shade of a ka??i plant
on that road where white stones glisten and draw the eye.
You returned then because you thought of the pain
she would feel with the cold north wind
when rain clattered down in the shivering darkness.
P?lai P??iya Peru?ka?u?k?


6. ?With her? is added.
10. The palm leaf has a message written on it.
14. ?In frustration? is added.
16. ?Found him? is added.
18. K2 interprets ?draw the eye? (ka? pa?i) as ?takes out (and eats) the eye.? 
19. ?You returned then? is added.








 








-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20130609/b2e2b906/attachment.htm>

