[INDOLOGY] dacoits, bandits, thugs and other unsavory characters
Thieves are quite common in the Sangam works (probably 1st 2 centuries CE), especially in the P?lai poems, where they inhabit the wilderness and ambush travelers.  Here's my translation of a poem from the Akan?n??u.  George
337. P?lai
The hero, who, in a time before left [the heroine] to acquire wealth and returned, speaks to his heart which is urging him [to set out again] to get wealth.
?Her body is the color of a shoot moistened by the rain
budding on a high branch of a y? tree on the hillside,
and her large, cool eyes strive with one another.
Leaving her to feel the pain of loneliness,
staying here is not a pleasant thing.
Wealth is being there, with her,? you thought, and you returned to her
while I stayed alone in the burning jungle abandoned by rain.
There, where the many little hills look like rows of donkeys of salt merchants,
a Brahmin came who often took messages back and forth,
his stomach shriveled from not eating, grasping a rolled-up palm leaf.
Cruel thieves, weapons in hand, thought he was holding gold
and killed him at once, pointlessly.  When they saw how poor he was,
wearing rags instead of decent clothes, with their arrow shafts bloody,
they snapped their fingers in frustration and went away.
A male jackal on the path among the striped hemp plants found him, 
chewed on his intestines that hung out bleeding profusely,
and then howled, staying in the shade of a ka??i plant
on that road where white stones glisten and draw the eye.
You returned then because you thought of the pain
she would feel with the cold north wind
when rain clattered down in the shivering darkness.
P?lai P??iya Peru?ka?u?k?
6. ?With her? is added.
10. The palm leaf has a message written on it.
14. ?In frustration? is added.
16. ?Found him? is added.
18. K2 interprets ?draw the eye? (ka? pa?i) as ?takes out (and eats) the eye.? 
19. ?You returned then? is added.
On Jun 8, 2013, at 8:51 PM, Dipak Bhattacharya <dbhattacharya200498 at YAHOO.COM> wrote:
