[INDOLOGY] question for European Indologists
Richard is probably in a better position to talk about the historical
changes and processes, but to flesh out some of the current details (I came
up/arrived in Oxford in 2009, and finished the BA in Sanskrit last year):
- The BA in Sanskrit (with a secondary focus on Iranian languages, P?li,
Bengali, Hindi, Prakrit, Tibetan, or another language currently being
offered by a member of staff) is three years. There are three terms per
year (8 weeks each, starting in October). After two terms (late March), one
sits three three-hour exams - "Prelims". Papers include Texts, Grammar, and
General (essay). Grammar/Texts are based on Coulson (from day 1), Lanman
(Nala story et c., in our year from week 3/4), and 3/4 books from the G?t?
(end of first and second term). Topics for General derive from tutorials
with your Sanskrit teachers and/or specialists in their respective fields
who are currently at Oxford. There are also lectures and introductions,
say, on General Indian History, The Study and Nature of Religions, Buddhist
Studies et c.
- The second part of the degree (Final Honours School, 7 terms) is based on
9 three-hour papers/examinations at the end of the 9th term/3rd year. 7 in
Sanskrit, 2 in your subsidiary language/tradition. The Sanskrit ones are:
Unprepared Translation, Essay Questions on the History of Classical Indian
Civilisation, Indian Linguistics, Historical Philology of Old Indo-Aryan,
Chosen Area Unprepared Translation, Chosen Area Essays, Special Subject (or
BA dissertation).
Again, the pool of essay questions is influenced by tutorials,
lectures/seminars, and readings during the BA. The idea is to get a good
cross-section of different traditions, genres, and themes.
For your subsidiary language/tradition, there are: X Texts and Questions on
X Language and Literature.
Only two papers (Linguistics, i.e. mainly P??ini; and Old-Indo Aryan) are
set texts = more or less based on a fixed syllabus.
Regarding Chosen Area and Special Subject, these can be, as far as I know,
fairly flexible and tailored to the student's interests and available
expertise (as outlined by Dominik). My fellow Sanskritist chose Buddhist
Philosophy and ?yurveda, I opted for Epic Sanskrit, History of ?aivism, and
Apabhra??a.
In addition, people are encouraged to attend Richard's P?li Summer School
or Sad?nanda's Spoken Sanskrit Course.
- The same criteria apply, to a certain extent, to the Sanskritic master's
degrees (MSt in Oriental Studies, MPhil in Classical Indian Religion). The
2-year MPhil for example does have a core syllabus of set texts, but one
can choose between some of the major traditions, e.g. General Brahmanical,
?aiva, Vai??ava, Bauddha, and so forth. In the one-year MSt, one can
read/work on pretty much everything, assuming there is someone who can
guide/supervise you. This year, we had people working on
paribh??a-s?tras/the ?g-veda, History of ?aivism/Ai?a Sanskrit, and
Brahmanical/?aiva topics, but there were also readings in Bauddha, Buddhist
Chinese (with Sanskrit/Tibetan comparison), and Bauddha Tantra texts.
Hope that helps.
Best wishes,
Paul
On 28 June 2013 08:58, Dominik Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com> wrote:
Paul Gerstmayr
Oriental Studies - Tantric Sanskrit
Balliol College, Oxford
Clarendon - Boden/Sanskrit - Santander Graduate
