[INDOLOGY] question for European Indologists
I am indebted to the members of this list who provided what turned out to
be fascinating answers (much more than I anticipated) regarding their
university training in Sanskrit.  Professor Gombrich's account is, of
course, the icing on the cake. His answer also provides me with an
opportunity to explain why I asked the question in the first place.  For
more than a year I have been working on a brief history of Sanskrit
pedagogy in the West.  I began by asking "Why Nala"? Considering that
Sanskrit had been taught in India for perhaps two millennia  (where it was
also learned as a "second" language), it was more than a bit odd to me that
we are stuck in the West in a pedagogy that goes back to the early 1800s,
and is completely unrelated to traditional methods of learning Sanskrit.
Another oddity is the figure of the American scholar W D Whitney, who,
though living at a time when there was no tradition of teaching Sanskrit in
the USA--in fact, not even any graduate education here yet--managed to
produce what has become one of the most influential Sanskrit grammar books
for Western students.  Whitney's book was controversial at the time (he is
dismissive of the Indian grammatical tradition).  Underlying Whitney's work
was what he called his "historical" approach to the language.  Of course,
this approach already existed in the German academy, but Whitney's grammar
(originally published in Germany), cemented the tradition in the West of
studying Sanskrit as a hand-maiden to the study of Indo-European languages.
 This model dominated the newly found graduate programs in the US (where
Whitney's students took a pre-eminent role, among them William Rainey
Harper at Chicago, Maurice Bloomfield at Hopkins, and Lanman at Harvard).
Although Richard's description of the old Oxford situation has a rather
different history, the resonances are not at all surprising.
Again, from informal questioning, in the USA, Goldman and Goldman is
perhaps the leading primer now.  Slightly behind this is Deshpande,
Aklujkar, and Maurer.  I studied Sanskrit in the 80's when the
Perry-Lanman-Whitney triumvirate dominated (we also used the English
translation of Gonda). Macdonell has also been popular.  For those who are
unaware of this, Macdonell's grammar is an abbreviation of Max Muller's
grammar.  Unlike Whitney (which it precedes), Max Muller's grammar is
sensitive to the Indian grammarians. However, on this and on a number of
academic matters, Whitney expressed a strong antipathy to Max Muller's
work.
with regards,
Herman
On Fri, Jun 28, 2013 at 10:03 AM, richard gombrich
<richardgombrich at me.com>wrote:
Herman Tull
Princeton, NJ
