[INDOLOGY] scribal self-recitation while copying
Ah-- I did not, of course, mean to suggest that all those references were
contained in those three articles -- apologies if that was confusing.
 Dutta, if I remember correctly, mines information from the
Hayas?r??-pa?car?tra, Vi??udharmottara, Caturvargacint?mani,
D?nakha??a, Dev?pur??a, K?tyakalpataru, and Nandipur??a, and discusses the
pair of reciter and copyist.
Some more sources that describe the other phemomena, with page numbers, etc:
Awliya, Nizam ad-din. 1992. *Morals for the Heart: Conversations of Shaykh
Nizam ad-din Awliya recorded by Amir Hasan Sijzi*. Edited by Bruce (trans)
Lawrence, *Classics of Western spirituality ; #4*. New York: Paulist Press.
p 26 (correction of scribal errors)
Bahura, Gopalnarayan. 1984. *Catalogue of manuscripts in the Maharaja Sawai
Man Singh II Museum : Pothikhana collection (a) Dharmasastra*, *Maharaja
Sawai Man Singh II memorial series no. 7*. Jaipur: The Museum.
(Introduction) (on Rajput emulation of Mughal ateliers)
Goswamy, B.N. 2006. *The Word is Sacred, Sacred is the Word: The Indian
Manuscript Tradition*. New Delhi: Niyogi Books. pp 54-6 (on itinerant
scribes)
Habib, Irfan. 2006. ?Writing and the Use of Books in the Age of Persian
Manuscripts.? *Tattvabodh* 1: 22. pp 18-22 (on personal copying of books,
or copying of personal books)
Losty, Jeremiah P. 1982. *The art of the book in India*. London: British
Library. pp 44-5 (on stereotyped Jain mss)
Further references will be found in each of the above, though they are
admittedly few.  Am away from home and this is what I have on hand at the
moment; will send more once I'm back.
And as I mentioned in the earlier mail, the references are scattered,
fragmentary, and spread across multiple periods and traditions.  So I would
only conservatively suggest that these are indicative of a particular
practice at a particular place and time, rather than making any
generalizations from them.
Best,
Tyler
On Sun, Jul 28, 2013 at 2:54 AM, Dominik Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com>wrote:
