[INDOLOGY] question for European Indologists
Dear colleagues,
I might answer Christophe Vielle's question about Italian Sanskrit manuals 
and add my experience as a student back in Milan. In the nineties we 
studied Sanskrit grammar in one year (two semesters, from October to 
mid-February and from March to Mai), six hours (three two-hours sessions) 
per week. We used the second edition of Della Casa's Corso di Sanscrito -- 
apart from one student who still had the first edition from 1980, that was 
just a reproduction of Della Casa's typewritten draft, thus with no 
Devanagari at all, if I remember correctly. The chair for Sanskrit had been 
created for the need of students of Indo-european studies (Glottologia), 
and this is the main reason, I guess, why also in the second edition 
(typeset with a computer), Devanagari is not introduced until the end of 
the book -- that is to say, when the students are supposed to master enough 
grammar to be able to read the passages at the end of the book, printed in 
a beautiful and easily readable Devanagari. These are Hitopadesa and 
Pancatantra stories (I remember the first one we read, the story of the 
dull tortoise and the two geese), passages from the Mahabharata, one 
passage from the Satapathabrahmana, one story from the Kathasaritsagara 
etc.
Despite the title, I would not define it a "coursebook," but rather a 
reference grammar. The structure is identical with the one of grammars for 
Latin and Greek we used in high school (our ginnasio and liceo), and there 
is practically no explanation of the syntax (but for a short chapter of one 
and a half page). I think this is the major drawback of the book, together 
with the fact that it uses transliteration throughout, except for the 
reading passages at the end, as already said.
During my time as a student in Marburg, I started using as reference 
Stenzler's (I don't remember which edition) and Whitney's grammars, and I 
must confess I got the impression that Della Casa is more or less an 
adaptation of Stenzler's grammar. In fact, Stenzler is still the grammar I 
turn to for a quick reference, mainly because I know where to look up due 
to its structure almost identical to Della Casa's Corso di Sanscrito.
As to traditional grammar, in the second semester we had a general 
introduction to Panini (two hours per week), but I think this was the only 
semester in which it has been offered.
Camillo Formigatti
Research Associate
Cambridge University
Faculty of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
On Jul 4 2013, indology-request at list.indology.info wrote:
