[INDOLOGY] Fwd:  What's "Vedic"?
Re: [INDOLOGY] What's "Vedic"?
Dear Jarrod,
I've been very busy with other things, but I want to add another response
to your question, just in order to keep your thread going.  I think that it
is a discussion worth having.
I myself do not spend much time any more worrying about Vedic dates. Vedic
texts are oral texts that grew by accretion over many generations.  The
earliest historical evidence for a Vedic language is roughly 1300 BCE, in
the Mitanni texts, where there is clear evidence of a linguistic split
between Old Indic and Old Iranian.  So I would hesitate to say that
Vedic is older than 1300 BCE, for lack of any historical evidence of it.
Also, Iranists, as far as I know [I haven't kept up with the most recent
research there], do not consider the dialect of the Gathas [oldest Iranian
text] to be very old.  There is also an Old Avestan text, independent of
the Gathas, the Yasna Haptangaiti, which is remarkable for preserving
ritual formulaic mantras that are very reminiscent of RV formulaic
mantras.  These comparisons with Old Avestan texts suggest that Old Vedic
[RV, etc], are of a comparable date with these Old Avestan texts: fairly
late.
But we are comparing many things, none of which have firm dates.
I say: let it go.  We don't have firm dates.  We can only give very
approximate ones.
But like Jarrod and Howard I would like to hear the views of others.
On the other hand, our first historical evidence  of writing in India is
mid-third cent. BCE [the Asokan edicts].  These edicts are written in a
post-Vedic, and even a post-Sanskrit, dialect.  We may assume, of course,
that good Vedic was still spoken at that time in some quarters, and of
course good Sanskrit was too, but it was a different Sanskrit than the Old
Vedic Sanskrit of the Rgveda, by many centuries.
This is the framework that I would work within, in terms of dating Vedic
texts.  I don't count later
commentaries on earlier Vedic texts as "Vedic" if they don't exhibit the
linguistic features of clearly Vedic texts.
For this reason the Sanskrit epic texts, as we have them, are all clearly
later than all Vedic texts, also as we have them.
Earliest Buddhist texts, in Pali, also oral, are clearly post-Vedic as well.
So, by mid-3rd century BCE nobody, as far as I can tell, was producing
genuine "Vedic" texts.
My best wishes, with the hope that this helps.
George Thompson
On Mon, Jul 8, 2013 at 12:17 PM, Jarrod Whitaker <whitakjl at wfu.edu> wrote:
