[INDOLOGY] [RISA-L LIST] Background and chronology of Vedic	texts
Since the early 1970s, I have tried to correlate the Indo-Iranian
languages and texts with archaeology, and to work out their
prehistoric evolution and chronology taking into account the linguistic
and religious evidence.
My present understanding is summarized in the following papers:
"Formation of the Indo-European and Uralic (Finno-Ugric) language families
in the light of archaeology: Revised and integrated 'total' correlations",
Pp. 119-184 in: Riho Gr?nthal & Petri Kallio (eds.), Linguistic map of
Prehistoric Northern Europe. (M?moires de la Soci?t? Finno-Ougrienne 266.)
Helsinki 2012 [2013].
"The D?sas of the ?gveda as Proto-Sakas of the Yaz I -related cultures.
With a revised model for the protohistory of Indo-Iranian speakers."
Pp. 221-264 in: Martin E. Huld, Karlene Jones-Bley & Dean Miller (eds.),
Archaeology and Language: Indo-European Studies presented to James P. Mallory.
(Journal of Indo-European Studies Monograph 60.) Washington, D.C. 2012.
"S?maveda and sorcery", in press.
Briefly and very roughly:
Proto-Indo-Iranian c. 2800-2300 BCE in the Pontic steppes between
the Dnieper and the Volga.
Proto-Iranian c. 2300-1500 BCE in the Pontic-Caspian steppes between
the Dnieper and the Ural rivers.
Proto-East-Iranian / Proto-Saka speakers came
c. 1500 BCE as horse-riders to southern Central Asia, mixing
there with "Proto-?gvedic" Indo-Aryans; by 1000 BCE this resulted
in the creation of the earliest parts of the Avesta.
Proto-Indo-Aryan c. 2300-1350 BCE in the forest-steppes and steppes
of the Volga, the Urals (contact with Uralic/Finno-Ugric), Siberia,
southern Central Asia, Iran, Syria, and northwestern India
Proto-Indo-Aryan came to southern Central Asia and South Asia in
two waves with some differention in language and religion.
The first to arrive in southern Central Asia c. 21st century BCE
was the "Pre-Atharvavedic" branch, coming from the southern Urals
with horse-chariot (principal deities: A?vins and then Mitra-and-Varu?a
the latter probably doubles of the A?vins with the royal function).
They took over the originally non-Indo-European speaking
Bactria-Margiana Archaeological Complex (BMAC).
Part of these BMAC-Indo-Aryans proceeded to South Asia c. 1900 BCE.
In South Asia they started mixing with the majority population of
Late Indus Civilization, which spoke Proto-Dravidian.
The "pre-?gvedic" branch of Proto-Indo-Aryan speakers
(main deity: Indra, worshipped with Sauma cult) arrived in
southern Central Asia c. 1750 BCE, mixing there with the
"pre-Atharvavedic" branch, whose representatives probably
introduced the "proto-S?mavedic" prag?tha/g?yatr? poetry and
the A?vin & Mitra-and-Varu?a cult to the resulting "Proto-
?gvedic" tradition (c. 1500-1350 BCE), to which the Mitanni
Aryans belonged
King Divod?sa and his offspring led the ?gvedic Aryans
from the Kandahar region via eastern Afghanistan (where
the battles with the D?sas mainly took place) to the Panjab
c. 1350 BCE. The ?gvedic hymns were probably composed
c. 1350-1100 BCE.
In the Indus Valley, the ?gvedic Aryans mixed with the
earlier arrived "pre-Atharvavedic" Indo-Aryans who had
been subject to the Harappan substratum influence.
This mixing resulted first in the composition of the late books
of the ?gveda and the hymns of the Atharvaveda,
perhaps c. 1100-1000 BCE, and then the Br?hma?a literature
(the Yajurvedic Samhit?s as its earliest parts), perhaps
c. 1000-700 BCE.
The ?ra?yakas, earliest Upani?ads and the ?rautas?tras of
Baudh?yana and V?dh?la might date from around the 7th century BCE.
In any case it took some time for the s?tra style to reach
the condensation level of P??ini, whose date cannot be
much later than c 350 BCE.
Cheers, Asko Parpola
Quoting "Witzel, Michael" <witzel at fas.harvard.edu>:
