[INDOLOGY] "vIraka"
Sorry, my last mail went off by accident before finishing.
So: please see Dominic Goodall?s entry on Nandin in the Taantrikaabhidhaanako"sa, referring also to GOURISWAR BHATTACHARYA, Nandin and Vr?s?abha. ZDMG Suppl. 3,2
(1977) 1545-1567.
best, 
JT
CC: indology at list.indology.info
Re: [INDOLOGY] "vIraka"
If I understand Judit correctly, the Nandirudra which Jayaratha writes of is not half-bull half-man. Identification of Nandin as ?iva's bull is a recent phenomenon; in the pre-modern period, the bull vehicle was just called V??abha while Nandin/Nandirudra was a ga?a and one of ?iva's dv?rap?las.
best, C
On 11 August 2013 06:38, Andrew Nicholson <andrew.nicholson at stonybrook.edu> wrote:
Thanks to all of the Indological sleuths who responded to my query,
both on- and off-list. The collective knowledge of the scholars here
is astounding.
I should have mentioned that Kurma Purana 2.7.7 includes "vIrANAM
vIrabhadro 'haM." It therefore seems a little less likely to me that
"gaNeSAnAM ca vIrakaH" only three verses later at 2.7.10 would be a
repeated reference to Virabhadra. However, the identification of
Viraka with the half-bull, half-man form of Nandin, suggested by Drs.
Roebuck and T?rzs?k, makes a lot of sense.
Based on your responses, it also seems there is a dissertation waiting
to be written on the mythology and iconography of Nandin/Viraka. If
someone can point me to an article on Nandin that discusses this
humanoid form, I'd be grateful.
My annotated translation of the Isvara Gita (Kurma Purana 2.1-2.11),
including this verse about vIraka, will be available from SUNY Press
in 2014.
All the best,
Andrew
Andrew J. Nicholson
Associate Professor
Dept. of Asian and Asian American Studies
and Dept. of Philosophy
SUNY Stony Brook
Stony Brook, NY 11794-5343  USA
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info
?iv?s te panth?na? santu = May
there be blessings on your journey.
Christopher Wallis, M.A. (Cal), M.Phil. (Oxon) 
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info 		 	   		  
