[INDOLOGY] Jodhpur RORI
Dear Jean-Michel Delire,
I worked at RORI in Jodhpur over a somewhat long visit--in 2006, if memory serves.  The library staff members I met there were genial and knowledgeable.  (It can be useful to know Hindi.)  The institute launched its website during my stay, and I thought they had intended to digitize some materials.  The building has a nice room with a long table surrounded by books, and other rooms.  They seemed well equipped, and it is overall a nice place to work.
I had none of the official documents you have--letters from the embassy and home institution--, and a number of state holidays broke up my work there (they closed for Nanak Jayanti, and so on); but RORI overlooked my bureaucratic shortcomings and in the end made physical copies of the manuscripts I requested.  (Digital photography was prohibited.)  There was no mention of the need for a formal affiliation with an Indian University, as I remember it, but it is possible things have changed
You probably already know at least as well as I that the library itself holds an incredibly rich collection.  There are whole academic careers' worth of materials there, and if I am not mistaken it is one of the largest, if not the largest, collection of manuscripts in India.  (Many tantric texts are housed there, but also very many other items.)  I have long thought someone should spend a year or two there looking at the collection, thinking about how it perhaps reflects the Maharajas? influence, medieval bhakti and tantric traditions, and the like: that is, the collection itself is worthy of study, apart from the many individual treasures that it houses.
Good luck there, and I hope many others use this excellent library (and have a look also at the other manuscript library in Jodhpur, in the Mehrangarh Fort itself, which is also a very interesting place).  
Sincerely,
John
On Fri, 02 Aug 2013 10:58:29 +0200
 Jean-Michel Delire <jmdelire at ulb.ac.be> wrote:
John Nemec, Ph.D.
Director of The South Asia Center and
Associate Professor, Indian Religions and South Asian Studies
Department of Religious Studies
University of Virginia
323 Gibson Hall / 1540 Jefferson Park Avenue
Charlottesville, VA 22904 (USA)
nemec at virginia.edu
+1-434-924-6716
http://virginia.academia.edu/JNemec
