Grants
Dear colleagues,
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit?t (LMU) in Munich is one of the leading
?E?
uropean universities with a tradition reaching back more than 500 years.
The university has established the Graduate School "Distant Worlds: Munich
Graduate School for Ancient Studies", which has been funded by the German
Excellence Initiative since November 1st, 2012. As part of its doctoral
study and postdoctoral training programme, the Graduate School combines
research from a broad spectrum of disciplines within the field of ancient
studies.
The Graduate School invites applications of young researchers specializing
in Classics, Chinese or Indian Studies as well as the Ancient Near East for
the following positions:
3
?p?
ost-
?d
oc
? p
ositions
   - ??Salary Grade 13 TV-L / 100%
   - The starting date will be November 1, 2013.
   - The positions are limited to two years; they may be extended by a
   third year.
   - Each of the positions will coordinate a junior research group. The
   research groups are orientated towards one of the seven focus areas of the
   School.
*
*
??
Responsibilities
Successful candidates will conduct an independent research project
contributing to one of the seven focus areas, to be chosen by the
candidates themselves. In pursuing their research, candidates will be
supported by mentors.
They will collaborate with doctoral students in an interdisciplinary junior
research group and coordinate the activities of that group.
They will develop new research perspectives in the field of ancient studies
together with the members of the M?nchner Zentrum f?r Antike Welten.
Requirements
In order to apply, candidates will need to have completed their doctorate
in the field of ancient studies with outstanding results. Applicants will
need to submit a proposal for an independent research project. They should
demonstrate their willingness to work in an interdisciplinary context as
well as an interest in basic and theoretical questions. We are especially
interested in candidates whose research projects relate to the following
focus areas: "Organisation of coexistence", "Organisation of exchange",
"Organisation of elites".
The School offers the scope for developing new perspectives in an inspiring
research environment.
?Disability and equal opportunities
?
Applicants with disabilities possessing essentially equal qualifications
will be given preference. LMU Munich is an equal opportunity employer
committed to excellence through diversity and therefore explicitly
encourages women to apply.
?
Application process
?
For further information see:
*?*? <http://www.mzaw.uni-muenchen.de/dw>
www.mzaw.uni-muenchen.de/dw
Applications must be submitted electronically in German or English
? ?
by September 23, 2013 to mzaw at lmu.de
? .?
