From kauzeya at gmail.com  Tue Aug 13 14:59:50 2013
From: kauzeya at gmail.com (Jonathan Silk)
Date: Tue, 13 Aug 13 16:59:50 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Post-doc position in Leiden: Buddhism and Social Justice
Message-ID: <CAMGmO4L1gckFRznJs3m4fi+j-9iQsLsQYMGwttZvFghw=dHeYQ@mail.gmail.com>

Apologies for cross-posting:

http://werkenbij.leidenuniv.nl/vacatures/wetenschappelijke-functies/13-249-postdoc-position-in-the-nwo-project-buddhism-and-social-justice.html


Post-Doctoral Fellow Position in the NWO project Buddhism and Social Justice

The Faculty of Humanities, vacancy 13-249
The Leiden University Institute for Area Studies

The Leiden University Institute for Area Studies (LIAS) of the Faculty of
Humanities at Leiden University invites applications for a One Year
full-time position (Post-doctoral Fellow) in the field of Buddhist Studies,
to begin as soon as possible.

*One Year Post-Doctoral Fellow Position in the NWO Project Buddhism and
Social Justice (1.0 fte)
Vacancy number: 13-249*

Since its foundation in 1575, Leiden University, with around 17,000
students and 4,000 staff, has built an internationally recognized record of
excellence in teaching and research. The Faculty of Humanities consists of
the Institutes for Area Studies, Creative & Performing Arts, Cultural
Disciplines, History, Linguistics, Philosophy, and Religious Studies. It
has about 4,500 students and 900 staff from around the world. The faculty
offers about 30 BA and 45 MA programs. The Graduate School has an annual
output of about 50 PhDs.

The Leiden University Institute for Area Studies (
http://www.hum.leiden.edu/lias/), which comprises the Schools of Asian
Studies and Middle Eastern Studies, is committed to the integration of
disciplinary and regional-historical perspectives, and has as its aim the
advancement of teaching and research of Area Studies at Leiden University
and in the wider academic community. Area specializations in Asian Studies
include Chinese, Japanese, Korean, South- & Southeast Asian, and Tibetan
Studies.

Duties and responsibilities

We seek a Post-Doctoral Fellow with excellent qualifications to work in the
NWO Project Buddhism and Social Justice. Specialization is open, but the
applicant should focus her/his work on the general subject area of the
project. The project is ongoing (see http://www.BuddhismAndSocialJustice.com),
with the One Year vacancy made possible by the departure of a present
Post-doc fellow for a tenured appointment elsewhere.

Applicants should  have a demonstrably excellent academic track record in
Buddhist Studies, and hold a PhD in Buddhist Studies or a related field, or
its equivalent. They should have an excellent command of English and be
prepared to present their research results in English. Within the one year
time frame, the successful candidate should engage in research, prepare at
least one article for publication, and participate in the project?s
upcoming international conference.

What we offer

The position is for one year with a full-time appointment. The salary is
determined in accordance with the current scales as set out in the
collective labour agreement for the Dutch universities (CAO): min. ? 2.427,
max. ? 3.491, with additional holiday and end-of-year bonuses. Candidates
from outside the Netherlands may be eligible for a substantial tax break.
Further information

For more information about the position please contact Prof. dr. J.A Silk,
tel. +31-71-527-2510, email j.a.silk at hum.leidenuniv.nl. Please note that
applications should not be sent directly to Prof. Silk.
How to apply

Candidates please send your application (in English), including:
? a cover letter stating your motivation for this position, and proposed
project
? a CV,
? copies of your academic transcripts,
? a copy of your PhD thesis and other relevant publications,
? the names and contact information for three referees.

These items should preferably be submitted in a single PDF document called
?Family Name-Given Name-13-249.?

Review of applications will commence immediately and continue until the
position is filled or this call is closed.

Please *send your application* electronically, indicating the vacancy
number to:  vacatureslias at hum.leidenuniv.nl
All application materials should be sent in pdf format.

If it is not possible for you to submit an electronic application, you may
mail your materials, citing the vacancy number, to:

M. van Asperen
Leiden University
P&O FGW
PO Box 9515
2300 RA Leiden
The Netherlands

A telephone (or Skype) interview may be part of the selection procedure.

-- 
J. Silk
Instituut Kern / Universiteit Leiden
Leiden University Institute for Area Studies, LIAS
Johan Huizinga Building, Room 1.37
Doelensteeg 16
2311 VL Leiden
The Netherlands

copies of my publications may be found at
http://www.buddhismandsocialjustice.com/silk_publications.html


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20130813/df2497c6/attachment.htm>

