[INDOLOGY] Sacrificial Tortoise?
In the poems, it is common for the hero to address his heart and blame it for motivating him to leave his woman and go into the wilderness to acquire wealth.  In such poems -- and there are many of them -- the hero and his heart are treated as different beings.  In Akam 9, for example, the hero's heart has already reunited with the heroine while the hero is still on his way home.  In this poem, the hero blames his heart for making him set out, and then, in the middle of the wilderness, tells his heart it must stop thinking of the heroine.  This is all quite clear in the poem.
As for the sacrifice -- what can we say or know?  It is possible the priest Staal spoke to did not want to admit to killing the turtle -- since Nambudris are strict vegetarians and would lose status if people think they roast turtles.  But assuming the agnicayana does not involve actually burning the tortoise, that doesn't tell us what happened in the ritual in this poem, which seems to suggest pretty clearly that it was burned and may not even be referring to the agnicayana.  It's also possible the person who wrote the poem misinterpreted the ritual he saw.  As for the sarcasm I and others see in this poem, obviously there is no way to be absolutely sure.  But there is no question, I think, that our sympathies lie with the tortoise and that the ritual is likened to the burning wilderness.  This would seem to indicate that there is some sarcasm involved.  As for periy?r, we cannot know if it was intended sarcastically or not.  The fact that it is nowhere else used for the gods in the Sangam corpus (to my knowledge) indicates the poet may have have meant it in a sarcastic way.  I've tried to convey that possibility by translating the word as "great beings."
I don't think we can say much more about this poem.  My thanks to Palaniappan, Prof. Tieken, and others for their suggestions.  George Hart 
On Aug 2, 2013, at 1:10 AM, "Tieken, H.J.H." <H.J.H.Tieken at HUM.LEIDENUNIV.NL> wrote:
