[INDOLOGY] Fwd: [Mesaasg] (corrected) CFP: MESAAS Graduate	Conference 2014
Dear Colleagues,
If you know of graduate students who would benefit from presenting and
receiving feedback on their work, especially among peers not only from
South Asian studies but also from Middle Eastern and Africa studies, please
feel free to pass on the following information regarding the 2014 Graduate
Student Conference at the Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and
African Studies at Columbia University, to be held on 27-28 February, 2014.
 It is a unique opportunity for research students to interface with their
counterparts in other areas on themes of common interest.
Best,
Tyler
PDF attached. Please circulate widely.
Call For Papers: MESAAS Graduate Conference 2014
27 - 28 February, 2014
Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian and African Studies
Columbia University in the City of New York
The organizing committee of the 2014 MESAAS Graduate Student Conference at
Columbia University is pleased to invite paper and panel submissions
addressing themes that broadly relate to the MESAAS regions, including but
not limited to the following:
   -
   Literatures and aesthetics (Classical, early modern, and contemporary
   genres of imaginative literature; the visual and performing arts; cinema
   studies)
   -
   Knowledge systems, classical and contemporary (in law, ethics, science,
   language, and other fields; the history of Oriental Studies; the university)
   -
   Genealogies of the political (discursive and institutional histories of
   contemporary political practices)
   -
   Histories, disciplinary and subaltern (comparative studies of academic
   or professional modes of history writing and the vernacular or popular
   forms of retelling the past)
MESAAS is heir and host to a number of intellectual traditions that resist
division between the humanities and social sciences. We are interested in
examining both classical and emergent questions in area studies, not as
objects of research but as sources of generative knowledge, and as such,
aim to formulate new and post-disciplinary modes of inquiry beyond the
prevalent conditions of both scientism and historicism. As such, we are
equally interested in the limits of disciplinary knowledge production,
hegemonic epistemes and paradigms of thought, the work that goes into the
construction of ?areas? of study, as well as the past and future of area
studies.
To that end, we especially encourage work that rethinks the boundaries and
conditions of the disciplines with reference to regionally specific work,
particularly as that relates to critical geographical imaginaries from and
within the regions represented in the department.
Students interested in presenting a 20-minute paper should submit a 300-500
word abstract and one-page resume through the conference website:
http://www.mesaasgradconference.org  by December 1st, 2013. Notifications
will be sent in late December. Panel submissions are encouraged.  For other
inquiries,  please contact us via: info at mesaasgradconference.org
Mesaasg mailing list
Mesaasg at lists.columbia.edu
https://lists.columbia.edu/mailman/listinfo/mesaasg
