From kauzeya at gmail.com  Tue Nov 26 15:33:48 2013
From: kauzeya at gmail.com (Jonathan Silk)
Date: Tue, 26 Nov 13 16:33:48 +0100
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Last minute position in Comparative Philosophy
Message-ID: <CAMGmO4Kn6VRSOc0PwvjBBEf-qj=Zk8-2XoA9Pwy2vt=dphUzTA@mail.gmail.com>

dear Colleagues, (apologies for cross-posting),

I would like to bring to your attention a last minute position in
Comparative Philosophy in Leiden University.
I copy the ad below, but what I'd like to stress is what the Academic
Director of the Philosophy Institute told me, namely that--despite what the
ad may say-- they are looking for someone with a "specialization in Chinese
philosophy and/or Buddhism. Of course some acquaintance with so-called
western philosophy would help, but is not necessary. Up till now the
vacancy mostly drew historians of western philosophy with an interest in
other areas. I?d rather have it the other way around."
I, naturally, would prefer someone working on Buddhism to someone doing
Chinese philosophy... but that's my personal position, and I have nothing
to do with this appointment other than spreading the news (so, don't write
to me about it, I can't answer any questions, sorry!).

here's the ad:

*Assistant Professor in Comparative Philosophy and History of Philosophy*

The Faculty of Humanities, vacancy 13-335

*Leiden University Institute of Philosophy*

The Leiden University Institute of Philosophy (IPh) is one of seven
institutes within the Faculty of Humanities. IPh conducts research in
theoretical and practical philosophy, and has recently started to develop a
programme in comparative philosophy in cooperation with partners both in
Leiden and overseas.

Due to new opportunities in the field IPh is seeking to fill, on short
notice, the following position for its BA and MA programmes in Leiden and
The Hague, to start on 1 January 2014 (negotiable but not later than 1
February 2014):

*Assistant Professor in Comparative philosophy and History of Philosophy
(0.5 fte)*
*Vacancy Number* *: 13-335*

*Duties and responsibilities*

   - Prepare and deliver 3 courses per year for the BA and MA in Philosophy
   teaching programme, and electives in the BA International Studies in The
   Hague.
   - Conduct research in the field of Comparative Philosophy in
   coordination with the Chair of Comparative Philosophy and Political
   Thought.
   - Raise research funding and participate in local and national research
   projects.
   - Carry out administrative tasks both within and outside the department.
   - Collaborate with other staff members involved in teaching and research.
   - Contribute to services provided to the wider community through the
   university.

*Your profile*

   - A PhD in philosophy or area relevant to comparative philosophy
   (including the necessary language skills) and teaching competence in
   history of philosophy (preferably Ancient, Medieval, and/or Early Modern
   Philosophy)
   - Demonstrably good teaching skills and experience
   - Demonstrable experience in raising external funding for research.
   - Good communication skills, flexibility, and willingness to work in a
   team.
   - An excellent command of English is highly desirable.

*What we offer*

An inspiring working environment in an exciting faculty consisting of seven
institutes, in addition to IPh: Centre for the Arts in Society (LUCAS),
Institute for Area Studies (LIAS), Academy of Creative and Performing Arts
(ACPA), History (IH), Linguistics (LUCL), and Religious Studies (LIRS). The
faculty has some 4,500 students and 900 staff members, and offers 30 BA
programmes and 45 MA programmes. Each year the faculty?s Graduate School
awards over 50 doctorates to its students. The Institute of Philosophy is
located near Leiden?s old city centre.

The appointment is for 19 hours per week (0.5 FTE) for a period of two
years. Depending on performance, and on the development of teaching and
research in the field, both in Leiden and The Hague, opportunities for an
extension of the position in time and duration may arise. The position will
be classified as that of Assistant Professor 1 or 2 in the University Job
Classification (UFO), depending on the candidate?s abilities, knowledge and
experience. The salary will depend on the candidate?s education and
experience and be a minimum of ?3,259.00 and a maximum of ?5,070.00 (gross)
per month on the basis of a full-time working week (in accordance with
levels 11-12 of  the scale included  in the Dutch Universities? Collective
Labour Agreement).

Leiden University requires faculty members with teaching duties to have a
Basic Teaching Qualification (BKO). If the successful candidate does not
hold this qualification, *he or she will be expected  to fulfill this
requirement within a period of time to be agreed, in the event that his or
her contract is extended.*

*More information*

You can obtain further information about this vacancy by contacting
Prof.dr. Frans de Haas (Academic Director IPh), by e-mail (
f.a.j.de.haas at phil.leidenuniv.nl). For information about the relevant
teaching programmes in Philosophy and International Studies, see:
http://www.hum.leiden.edu/education/bachelors-programmes/ba-philosophy.html
http://www.hum.leiden.edu/philosophy/students/prospectus/e-prospectus.html,
http://hum.leiden.edu/international-studies/.

*How to apply*

If you are interested in this position, please send your application by
e-mail to the secretary Mrs C.W. Sombroek, c.w.sombroek at phil.leidenuniv.nlby *2
December 2013* at the latest. Please indicate the vacancy number. Your
application should be accompanied by a CV with a list of publications, a
list of courses you have taught, including evaluations, and a research plan
(2-3 pages), as well as the names and addresses of three references. Job
interviews will take place in the first half of December 2013.

The application procedure may include a trial class lecture.

-- 
J. Silk
Instituut Kern / Universiteit Leiden
Leiden University Institute for Area Studies, LIAS
Johan Huizinga Building, Room 1.37
Doelensteeg 16
2311 VL Leiden
The Netherlands

copies of my publications may be found at
http://www.buddhismandsocialjustice.com/silk_publications.html


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20131126/e92ce034/attachment.htm>

