As for Hart's statement, "And in modern times, they certainly must not be a high caste, since barbers and washermen will not eat food prepared by them,"  here is some historical information regarding their social status. Page 1 of the attachment shows an excerpt from the Tanjavur temple inscription of R?jar?ja I of ca. 1014 CE (South Indian Inscriptions, volume 2, no. 66). The amount of share given to different groups indicates how the C??a state valued their services. From the highlighted portions, one can see that each barber received half a share, each washerman received one share, and each P??a? received 1.5 shares. (Singers of Tamil songs and Sanskrit songs too are shown as receiving 1.5 shares each elsewhere in the inscription.) The glossing of P??a? as 'tailor' is a mistake by the editor who has used the late 19th or early 20th century profession of the P??ar. In the inscription, based on the title C?kkai, we have to consider them as Sanskrit theater artists. The highlighted portion of page 2 of the attachment shows a page from Inscriptions in the Pudukkottai State Translated into English, Part 2, by K. R. Srinivasa Ayyar (IPS). It shows that just as in the Classical Tamil period, the P??a? sang the victory of the king at the time of C??a Kul?ttu?ka? III in the beginning of the 13th century and was honored for it. Similarly, the highlighted portion of page 3 of the attachment shows an inscription of Cuntara P??tiya? issued a few years after the C??a inscription. This inscription shows the king giving the C??a crown made of gold to a P??a?. Moreover, the secular text, Kali?kattuppara?i, describes the P??ar performing in the C??a court songs composed by the king. This indicates that the relationship between the P??ar and the kings was almost the same as it was in the Classical Tamil period. Given this situation, it is impossible to accept the low social status of the P??ar as given in the hagiographies. 
The modern social status of the P??ar is discussed in the book N???r Varal??u (1978) by Prof. M?cas Po??aiy?, former Professor of Tamil at American College, Madurai, who includes them among a number of groups that have become Ve????ar. (See pages 4 and 5 of the attachment. While he is correct with respect to the modern social status of the P??ar, as I said in the earlier post, I disagree with some aspects of the social history he presents.) This is confirmed by pages 6 and 7 of the attachment which present pages from a newspaper of a federation of Ve????ar castes. At the bottom right of page 7 of the attachment one can see an advertisement by the P??ar association.
Regards,
Palaniappan
Sent: Sun, Nov 24, 2013 4:16 pm
Re: [INDOLOGY] query: 18 ;"sre.nii jaatis
In my opinion, the poems speak for themselves.  When the Sangam poems say someone was of despised birth and we see the same group among the Dalits today, that must mean they were Dalits then, I would think.  It would be very nice if Sangam society was casteless and we could point to it as an exemplar of what India would be like without the Brahmins or whatever group is supposed to have dreamed up the caste system.  The fact remains that caste is spread from Nepal to Sri Lanka and from Assam to Pakistan among many ethnic groups and religions.  I think it must be very ancient, and almost certainly pre-Aryan, as the Vedic Aryans had nothing whatsoever like the j?ti system.  But however that may be, the Sangam poems specifically mention caste many times.  No doubt Palaniappan and I will disagree on this forever, but I think it is important to state that I am not at all persuaded by his arguments.
I never claimed that P??a?s were Dalits ? they were not.  Apparently, they occupied (and still occupy) a position somewhat above the Dalits, as they stayed in the homes of rich people, sang for them, and also served as go-betweens between rich men and their women.  And in modern times, they certainly must not be a high caste, since barbers and washermen will not eat food prepared by them. Regarding the bhakti poems, it is undeniable that the Dalits and the P??a?s were not allowed to enter temples.  
If the poems don?t mean what they say, then there may not have been caste in Sangam times in TN.  If they do, then it is very difficult to argue against the existence of caste, in my opinion. 
George
On Nov 24, 2013, at 12:27 PM, palaniappa at aol.com wrote:
I agree completely with Rajam's statement, "There was no indication of "untouchability" in the Tamil society as reflected in early Tamil poems."
Since George Hart has criticized my findings in his post, I would like to say that the contents of Hart's post are nothing new. All these have been addressed in my paper available at http://www.soas.ac.uk/research/publications/journals/ijjs/file46109.pdf . We have also discussed this in Indology in 2009. Here are the last two posts of the Indology discussion http://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology_list.indology.info/2009-July/033485.html
http://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology_list.indology.info/2009-July/033486.html . 
So instead of going over material already covered, I shall discuss something I have not discussed so far. I shall summarize the crux of my views briefly at first. Those who are interested in the details can read further. 
For almost four decades, George Hart has propounded his views on the concept of dangerous sacred power,a?a?ku, among the Tamils and the practice of untouchability that resulted from contact with the sacred power. According to Hart, the P??a?s and Pa?aiya?s have always been the lowest castes because they were polluted because they came in contact with that sacred power.  The only problem is that, as I had mentioned in 2009, there is clear epigraphic evidence that the Tamil Pa?aiyar (plural of the Pa?aiya?) were not untouchables as late as the 11th century and Tamil P??ar (plural of the P??a?) are not untouchables even today. These facts completely invalidate Hart's theories. The reason Hart came to a conclusion diametrically opposite to mine is that his research methodology had major errors of commission and omission.
Those who are interested in more details can read on below. 
Regarding the power of a?a?ku, Hart (1975a: 43) wrote:
"This power had to be rigidly controlled. As a result, religious rites were carried out by the lowest castes: the Pa?aiya?s , the P??a?s, the Tu?iya?s, and the V?la?s...The V?la?, who is even today found among the Pa?aiya?s of Kerala, would dance ecstatically as he was possessed by Murugan, an indigenous god...The Pa?aiya?, the P??a?, and the Tu?iya? would each play a special instrument which was thought to be inhabited by a sacred power and which was used for various ritual purposes. The pollution which is attached to the low castes is thus a legacy of indigenous Dravidian religion."
Hart's views of Tamil untouchability and sacred power are inseparable. And for his whole theory to have any validity, the Pa?aiyar (plural of the Pa?aiya?) and the P??ar (plural of the P??a?) he has mentioned above should be untouchables or lowest castes. If even one group is not untouchable, his whole theory collapses. I have already mentioned that the Pa?aiyar were not untouchables in the 11th century. 
Hart (1975b:144) also says the following in connection with the Pa?aiyar:
"Elsewhere, the drum played for the king in the morning is the muracu (Pu?. 61, 397; Ai?. 448) . While there is nowhere any indication of who played the muracu, it is not unlikely that a subcaste of the Pa?aiya?s had that office, especially as one of the modern subdivisions of that caste is called Muracu."2 [emphasis mine]
Footnote 2 reads:
Edgar T. Thurston, Castes and Tribes of Southern India (Madras, 1909), VI:80
But, as shown in page 1 of the attachment, what Thurston (1909:80) really said was: 
"At the census, 1891, 348 sub-divisions were returned, of which the following were strongest in point of numbers:- Amma found chiefly in Tanjore and Madura;...; Morasu (drum) in Salem;...". [emphasis mine]
While Hart's change of -su to -cu may be understandable in terms of the Tamil transliteration system, the change of the radical vowel -o- to -u-,  which changed the name of the Pa?aiyar subdivision matching the word for 'drum' used in the Classical Tamil texts he cited, was problematic. This change could not have been a typographical error since in a later publication Hart (1987: 475) also says:
"One of the modern subdivisions of the Pa?aiya? caste is named "Muracu" (Thurston and Rangachari 1909: VI. 80), and it seems possible that this is a very ancient division." [emphasis mine]
In light of Hart's suggestion of the possible antiquity of this Pa?aiyar subdivision, there is some interesting information about the Morasu subdivision not mentioned by Hart (1975b) and Hart (1987). As can be seen from the highlighted portion in page 2 of the attachment, Thurston (1909: 81) says the following:
"It has been suggested to me that the Morasu Paraiyans, included in the above list are Canarese Holeyas, who have settled in the Tamil country." [emphasis mine]
Even more interesting is the situation with respect to the P???r. Hart (1975b: 120) states:
"The low status of bards may also be inferred from the fact that several centuries after the anthologies, Tirupp????v?r, who was a P??a? by caste, was considered to be so low that he was not allowed into the temple."
(The story of Tirupp????v?r occurs in different medieval Vai??ava hagiographical works such as the ???yirappa?i Guruparampar?prabh?vam. While the Vai??ava hagiographical works depict the P?nar saint Tirupp????v?r as not being allowed to enter the temple, the Periyapur??am, the 12th century ?aiva haigiographical work, portrayed the P??ar saint Tirun?laka??ar as originally standing outside the temple and being brought inside due to intervention by ?iva Himself. In another instance, the brahmin saint Tiru???acampantar is said to have arranged for Tirun?laka?tar to sleep inside another brahmin saint's house.)
Hart (1975b: 158) also stated:
"The Pa?aiya? is found in Tamilnad, Kerala, and the Kota-speaking areas, while the P??a? is found in modern Kerala and Orissa, and in parts of ancient North India, where P??a meant a low-class bard."
(The sources for the above statement were entries 3319 and 3351 in the first edition of Dravidian Etymological Dictionary (1960), which in turn, relied on Tamil Lexicon and  A Malayalam and English Dictionary by Gundert for information related to Tamil and Malayalam words respectively.)
As one can see, Hart (1975b) had left out any mention of the Tamil P??a? in present day Tamil Nadu. Based on the two statements of Hart quoted above, it seems Hart was not aware of the existence of the P??ar in present day Tamil Nadu. Otherwise, he would not have had to rely on medieval hagiography to ascertain the 'low' status of the P???r. Here lay a fundamental problem with Hart's research approach. He was producing sweeping anthropological conclusions with insufficient knowledge of people he was writing about.
All Hart had to do was to turn a few pages in Thurston (1909), which he had anyway consulted in the case of the Pa?aiyar.  Thurston (1909) spells P??a? as P????, with the second vowel being long ?. This spelling variation cannot be a reason for disregarding the entry. After all, Tamil Lexicon has entries connecting both variants as given below.
?????? p??a?, n. < ????. [M. p?na.] 1. An ancient class of Tamil bards and minstrels; ????????? ???????. ???????????????? (????. ??. 91). 2. See ??????. (W.)  
?????? p????, n. < ??????. Man of the tailor caste; ?????????? ????????
Note that the Tamil Lexicon derives 'P????' from 'P??a?'.
The entry in Thurston (1909: 29-42) on the P???? is a long one discussing both the Tamil P???? as well as the Malayalam P????. The entry opens with a very brief discussion of the Tamil P???? while discussion of the Malayalam P???? takes up the bulk of the entry. But it is the brief discussion of the Tamil P???? that Hart should have taken into account.
As can be seen in page 3 of the attachment, the entry on the P????s opens with the following statement.  "The Tamil P?n?ns are said, in the Census Report, 1901, to be also called M?stris. They are "tailors among Tamils in Madura and Tinnevelly. They employ Br?hmans and Vell?las as pur?hits. Though barbers and washermen will not eat food prepared by them, they are allowed to enter Hindu temples."   Later in the entry, as shown in page 4 of the attachment, in regards to the P????s of Travancore, Thurston (1909: 33) says, "For the following account of the P?n?ns of Travancore, I am indebted to Mr. N. Subramani Aiyar. The word is of Tamil origin, and means a tailor. The title taken by them is Panikkan, the usual honorific appellation of most of the industrial castes of Malabar. They are supposed to be one with the P?n?ns of the Tamil country though much below them in the social scale."  
As Gundert's dictionary notes, in Southern Tamil usage P??a? could indicate a bard as well as a tailor.
??????? p??a? T. M. (T. ????? = ???? melody). A caste of musicians, actors & players; in So. T. also tailors B., necromancers D. (= ???????????, ?????????????, ??????). ??' ????? ???? ???? prov. ??'???? ??????????????? ???????? Bhr. ? ?????????? V1. a caste of slaves.
Based on Tamil Lexicon and Gundert's dictionary, it is clear that P?n?n and P?nan are only variants of the same word. After all, there is no separate entry for P??a?s of Kerala in Thurston (1909).  Hart should have investigated if the P?n?n/P?nan, the tailor, and P?n?n/P?nan, the bard, were related in any way.  If he had conducted some fieldwork like anthropologists do before writing about different communities, he would have quickly realized that the tailors were from the same community as earlier bards.  At least if he had done a careful literature review, he would have gotten the true picture of the P?nans. 
For instance, the Arumpatavurai commentary for the Cilappatik?ram glosses tu??ak?rar in Cilappatik?ram (5.32) as P??ar. Also, as has been pointed out by Aiyar ([1924] 1999: 109), Travancore king B?lar?ma Varma's Sanskrit work, B?lar?ma Bharatam of the 18th century, presents as a tailor the bard P??apattiran of Madurai mentioned in the opening poem of the 11th Tirumu?ai of the ?aiva canon. Irakavan (1971: 79), a 20th century scholar, stated:
"????? ????? ????? ????? ????? ?????? ?????????????? ????? ????? ????????????????. ??????? ???????? ?????????????? ????????. ???? ?????????? ????? ??????? ????????? ??????? ????? ????? ????????????. ??? ????. ?????, ?????????? ????????????? ????????????????? ?????, ????????????, ???????????? ????? ????????? ???????? ???????????.???????????? ???? ????? ?????? ???????????????????."
Here is a translation of the above quote.
"Many wonder if the P??ar caste/lineage exists today. The P??ar caste/lineage has not perished. It exists in the P???iya country even today. Some say that with the disappearance of the lute, the P??ar caste/lineage is ruined too. That is wrong.  But people of the P??ar caste/lineage live in small numbers in Maturai, Tirunelv?li, and C?tta?ku?am. Without an occupation, many are engaged in the job of tailoring." 
I have attached a table from Ludden (1996:123) showing the status of the P??a? in Tirunelveli district in 1823. (See page 5 of the attachment. The date of 1923 shown in the table title should actually be 1823.) One can see that they were small in number but part of the large 'Sudra' category.  So were barbers and washermen. None of them was/is an untouchable community.  That is why K. K. Pillay (1969: 208), while discussing the use of pulaitti in Classical Tamil texts to refer to the washerwoman, said, "It is not known how the term 'Pulaitti' came to be employed to denote her, because in later times the class of washermen was not identical with that of 'Pulaiyar'."
Many of the traditional upper caste Tamil pundits of the 20th century did not distinguish between hagiography and history. For them what the Periyapur??am and the Guruparampar? Prabhavam were presenting was history. They did not see these works as propagandist texts intended to promote a specific ideology. So these Tamil pundits believed that the P??ar were untouchables of earlier Tamil society. These Tamil teachers and especially Tamil teachers in northern Tamil Nadu did not know that Tamil P??ar have continued to exist as a community even today and are suffering no untouchability. 
Most of these Tamil pundits were not knowledgeable about the reality-based social information available in the inscriptions. For instance, they did not know that  the P??ar were engaged in singing in front of the deities in brahminic temples, training the temple women in music, and were given houses and money by royal order to perform these duties. See page 6 of the attachment for a translation of a 12th century inscription in the Tiruvi?aimarut?r temple by Orr (2000: 102).
Some scholars in Southern Tamil Nadu like Irakavan (1971:78-79) were sold on the Periyapuranam's promotional view that it was the egalitarian nature of the Bhakti movement that allowed the P??ar to enter temples. (On this score, the Periyapur??am had succeeded in its promotional objective.) They had failed to note that Paripatal 3, a pre-Bhakti-movement Classical Tamil poem, calls Visnu "a good P??a? of lute" in a poem that is full of Vedic and Puranic elements. As part of the poem's adoration of Vi??u, Parip??al 3: 81-86 offers the following praise:
"You are the red-eyed one with dark complexion (V?sudeva), the black-eyed and white complexioned one (Sankar?a?a), the golden complexioned one (Pradyumna), the green complexioned one (Aniruddha), the one who dances to the left and right (of cowherd girls), the one who dances with the pot, the one who has the plough, the one who is the lord of cowherds, the one who protects, the one whose nature is not being seen, the one who never leaves the devotee's thought, the one that never dies, the one who rules the world, the poet of ancient texts, the good P???? of lute..." 
One cannot imagine this if the P??a? were untouchable before the time of Tiru?anacampantar.
One can understand the traditional Tamil pundits' ahistorical view given their possibly limited exposure to historiography, anthropology, and comparative linguistics. But one would expect a US scholar with access to Western critical scholarship and other resources at Harvard University, University of Wisconsin-Madison, and University of California, Berkeley to critically explore and evaluate facts.  Even after Orr (2000) published the translation of the Tiruvi?aimarut?r inscription shown in the attachment, Hart has not updated his views.
The facts that the Tamil Pa?aiyar were not untouchable even until 11th century and the P??ar are not untouchable even today completely invalidate Hart's theories regarding untouchability among ancient Tamils.  
Moreover, if contact with a?a?ku, the sacred power, caused one to be polluted and become untouchable, T?vantikai, a brahmin woman in the Cilappatikaram, a post-ClassicalTamil epic, who got possessed by C?tta?, danced, and offered oracles would not have been appointed as a priestess by the king in a temple with Vedic sacrificial hall. (See http://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology_list.indology.info/2013-November/038692.html)
It is ironic that in order to buttress his views Hart is citing Dravidian Etymological Dictionary as if its groupings are true for all time and as if it gives etymological roots. He is incorrect on both counts. (Deriving etymological roots purely based on dictionary entries without considering the philological context can lead to wrong etymologies as in the case of Tamil ??v?r 'Vai??ava saint' (DEDR 396), which S. Starostin derives from *??-. See http://tinyurl.com/q64ko6e . But literary and epigraphic data clearly show that ??v?r 'Vai??ava saint' should be grouped with DEDR 5157. See http://www.linguist.jussieu.fr/~chevilla/FestSchrift/supa_9d.pdf for the reasons. Hart's discussion of pul as a root is just another example of the same kind of etymologizing.)  Dravidian Etymology Dictionary's author, Emeneau, would be the last person to hold such views. A good example of Emeneau's genuine open-minded scholarship can be seen in Emeneau (1988),  after the revised Dravidian Etymological Dictionary was published in 1984. 
In other words, philological, epigraphic, and sociological data clearly refute Hart's theories of sacred power and untouchability among Tamils, which were based on a research approach with fundamental problems. 
References
Emeneau. M. B. 1988. Proto-Dravidian *C- and Its Developments. Journal of the American Oriental Society 108, no. 2: 239--268.
Irakavan. A. 1971. Icaiyum Yalum. Tirunelveli: Kalain?? Patippakam.
Hart, George L., III. 1975a. Ancient Tamil Literature: Its Scholarly Past and Future. In Essays on South India. Edited by Burton Stein, 41-63. University of Hawaii: The University Press of Hawaii.
Hart, George. L., III. 1975b. The Poems of Ancient Tamil: Their Milieu and Their Sanskrit Counterparts. Berkeley: University of California Press. 
Hart, George L., III. 1987. Early Evidence for Caste in South India. In Dimentions of Social Life: Essays in Honor of David G. Mandelbaum. Edited by Paul Hockings. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Ludden, D. E. 1996. Caste Society and Units of Production in Early Modern South India. In
Institutions and Economic Change in South Asia: Historical and Contemporary Perspectives. Edited by Burton Stein and Sanjay Subrahmanyam, 105-133. New Delhi: Oxford University Press.
Orr, Leslie. 2000. Donors, Daughters, and Devotees of God: Temple Women in Medieval Tamilnadu. New York: Oxford University Press.
Pillay, K. K. 1969. A Social History of the Tamils Part I. Madras: University of Madras.
Thurston, E. 1909. Castes and Tribes of Southern India. Vol. 6.  Madras: Government Press. 
Regards,
Palaniappan
