From saf at SAFARMER.COM  Mon Jan 15 22:39:22 2001
From: saf at SAFARMER.COM (Steve Farmer)
Date: Mon, 15 Jan 01 14:39:22 -0800
Subject: Some questions on Asuras
Message-ID: <161227066604.23782.17699099078715375281.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Bjarte Kaldhol wrote:

> Steve Farmer wrote:
>
> > We find obvious differences in
> > levels of abstraction in theistic concepts when we compare early
> > RV strata with later RV strata or with the Gathas. Do you
> > *really* mean to dispute that?
>
> No, I cannot dispute that. The question is, how do we explain these
> differences, and how do we date them?

These obviously aren't questions that we can settle in a couple
of posts. But I think that a preliminary answer is suggested if
we consider similar transformations that took place in other
ancient traditions. The fact is that if you chronologically
rearrange early stratified canons just about anywhere you run
into the same phenomenon (i.e., increased abstractness in
concepts over time) -- in Chinese texts in the Warring States
period (i.e., early fifth to late third centuries BCE), in
heavily layered Egyptian funereal traditions (in successive
redactions of the pyramid and coffin texts and Bk of the Dead),
in successive strata of the Pentateuch or Torah, in early Homeric
exegeses, in stratified Vedic or Buddhist traditions, or in
thickly layered Mesoamerican texts like the Books of Chilam
Balam. Similar processes can also be identified in less densely
stratified cuneiform texts, normally operating at somewhat slower
rates. This supports your observation about abstract deities of
particular sorts (also abstract pantheons, etc.) appearing at
early dates in the Ancient Middle East.

So the short answer is that I think that this increase in
abstractness is closely connected to the early layering of
traditions. We find it showing up whenever texts (written or
oral) become relatively "fixed" and start accumulating over time.
The phenomenon is less evident in Perry-Lord type oral situations
(e.g., in the Homeric corpus), although you can even find it here
in a primitive form. I've previously argued that I think that
simple exegetical processes explain most of these transformations
-- arising from redactors in later layers confronting conflicting
data in earlier ones. The speed with which such transformations
occur may even include some dating clues. But I too am under the
gun and must leave it at that for now. Thanks to Bjarte et al.
for the suggestive data and comments!

Regards,
Steve Farmer




