>From this list today I came to know a multilingual scholar
Just one?
I am sure that there are several more.

>
>students. These were mostly Persian words. Once I knew their meanings, it
>was also became interesting hobby for me to trace the related Sanskrit word
It is true with any language. There are so many words that some one uses in
English that I do not know and have to consult a dictionary to understand
the true intent of the writer or speaker.

>understand. If Urdu spread from the camp of Mahamood of Gazna from
>Afghanistan, then why does Urdu have 80% Sanskrit related words?

You have started a sentence with "if" and without waiting for the answer
went ahead with another question based on your assumed answer.
Have you heard the meaning of "assume = ASS U ME"? It is making an ass of
you and me.
Your second question has no significance unless your assumption is correct.



>group. Why Urdu was promoted by Turkish kings instead of promoting their
>own different Turkish language?
Whom do you call Turkish kings?
Babar, Humayn,  Akbar and all their dynasty was raised in India and were no
more foreigner than Sonia Gandhi and her children. Just because a person is
born in a certain country is no reason to assume that he./she cannot adopt
another country. I myself was born in India but am now a naturalized US
citizen and have no less loyal to US than any one born here.
 Muslim Arabs introduced Arabic script


>subcontinent. This market could be expanded to Afghanistan(birth place of
>Urdu) and then even to Iran and Arabia.
Your assumption is again incorrect. Afghanistan is not birth place of Urdu.
Persian and Arabic are two completely different languages and speaker of one
does not necessarily know the other language even slightly. As a matter of
fact Iranians are Shias and Afghanis are Sunnis and very bitter enemies of
each other.


>us throw it to the dog. Are not we people from the Indian heritage doing
>exactly the same in arguing about Urdu,Hindi and Sanskrit?May Allah change
>our attitude and let us hope Urdu will spread all over the middle east from
>Lebanon to Afghanistan!Amen! N.R.Joshi

Your are so off the mark that I do not what to say about your imagination
and wishes.


Have a peaceful and joyous day.
Aditya Mishra
Primary email: a018967t at bc.seflin.org
Primary homepage: http://www.pompano.net/~aditya
ICQ # 1131674 Phone #: (954)746-0442  Fax # (209)315-8571
Random thought of the day:
        President Reagan noted that there are too many economic pundits and forecasters and decided on an excess prophets tax.




