From VVRSPS at RITVAX.ISC.RIT.EDU  Wed Feb 28 18:12:38 2001
From: VVRSPS at RITVAX.ISC.RIT.EDU (V.V. Raman)
Date: Wed, 28 Feb 01 13:12:38 -0500
Subject: Islam and Idols (Re: Plight of Buddhist art)
In-Reply-To: <F744g3Sv0YKpDS7hx2700001183@hotmail.com>
Message-ID: <161227067809.23782.13211061918487425738.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

1. Even people who are not very versed in Islamic doctrines may be aware that
the Taliban's position may be argued to be perfectly consistent with some of
the passages and teachings of the Holy Qu'ran.
2. However, <explaining> the behavior of someone who is destructive should be
distinguished from excusing or applauding the act, which, I am sure is not what
some scholars are doing in this context. But it needs to pointed out that what
many people are vehemently reacting to is not the faith that inspires the
action of the Taliban, but the action's appropriateness in the age in which we
live.
3. It is not impossible for religious fanatics of any tradition  to engage in
disgustingly
outrageous behavior, quoting from their scriptures to justify their actions,
and (in many instances) they would be perfectly on target too, because (God
knows) many scriptures and canonical texts  have elements which, irrespective
of their appropriateness in times past, are intolerable, unacceptable, and
worthy of condemnation by all decent and enlightened people today, irrespective
of their religious affiliation.
4. Most dispassionate students of culture and religion will grant that Islam
has made great contributions to art and architecture, to scholarship and
literature and more, and that it also  preaches a great many decent human
values. But none of this can justify or condone what this particular group is
doing today in many contexts.
5. Every human institution, of no matter what antiquity, inherent merit, or
positive attributes, needs to change and evolve, or else it stagnates and rots,
and in this interwoven world, its stench can affect other human beings too.
Positive transformations within a religious system can occur only
when it is fortunate to produce bold visionaries, enlightened religious leaders
and thoughtful scholars. This is happening in a number of contexts all over the
world. One would hope that thinkers and scholars, both Muslim and others, who
wish well for this great and rich tradition, would persuade the mullahs and
others in power that hurtful and destructive behavior in the name of their
religion heaps more ignominy than glory on it.
V. V. Raman




