From dsalmon at SALMON.ORG  Sat Mar 17 23:46:04 2001
From: dsalmon at SALMON.ORG (David Salmon)
Date: Sat, 17 Mar 01 15:46:04 -0800
Subject: Interpreting the Gita
Message-ID: <161227068435.23782.16395858286813471385.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

> Arun Gupta wrote:
>
> > Gita is not a science, but it shares a characteristic of the hard
> > sciences, and that is understanding comes from practice.
>

Dmitri wrote:
>
> That's a good point.
>

Yes, it is, I think, but I probably wouldn't be able to pass a college-level
introductory class on "Hindu Religion" if I had to cite even basic sources
from memory.  We left my level of expertise heretofore.   But as an
ex-soldier, I have my own experiential "take" on the Gita that I think I
could surely transform into an interpretation well within the range of what
passes for student understanding, i.e., a good grade, were I to spend a few
minutes cramming the text.

My point is:  If  I could do that, out of my very limited experience of war,
why could not Dr. Doniger, who is a self-asserted pacifist, have a somewhat
similar catharsis, resulting in her own particular "take"?  Especially given
that her audience apparently was composed of college students.  Professors
are expected to strike provocative poses before students in order to
stimulate interest and insight.  The more curious and serious among them
will then come and take the actual courses, thus bestowing knowledge
benignly upon the world and helping to keep the professors employed.  Is
Prof. Doniger not entitled to act as a good teacher should, even on an
American campus?

I think one can answer a bad idea with a better idea, but I don't think one
can support a claim she isn't competent to judge simply on the ground that
she is not a devotee, if there is any of that in what Dr. Gupta is saying.
It may help, to be sure, I don't know.  But as a professor fulfulling her
function, part of which is stimulating thought and interest among students,
is not what she is said to have said (I agree with the observor who noted
that it is always hearsay, never an actual text or transcript) still well
within the boundaries of both academic and personal liberty and academic
standards?  We are dealing with mass ignorance here, remember, when we speak
of raw college students.  I have one in the house now and then.

As one old codger to another,
IMHO,

David




