From lskumar at SYMPATICO.CA  Fri Mar  2 01:43:27 2001
From: lskumar at SYMPATICO.CA (L. Suresh Kumar-LSK)
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 01 20:43:27 -0500
Subject: SV: SV: Plight of Buddhist art
Message-ID: <161227067887.23782.17016378052498756844.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

vaNakkam

A personal note :

I  and my family still have excellent cordial relations with our
Muslim neighbors  for  over 30  years as  close family  friends.
I am no Muslim hater. Hatred & Anger will destroy oneself eventually.

-----

"Islamic  tolerance"  - Is  this not a  contradiction in itself ?
Raveen-ji  pointed out  this news  item. Does  this say  anything
except the unwritten rule of exceptions to everything ? No.

Its   fine  to  condemn  this  from  SriLanka,  but  from  within
Afghanistan ? Why is that we dont hear strong condemnation to the
effect  that the  destruction  of idols  and  statues is  against
Koran/Islam  from, let us say, Pakistan/Bangladesh/ MiddleEastern
nations and notably from SaudiArabia ??

Muslims  or Muslim  nations  urging the  Taliban from  destroying
these  statues to preserve art/heritage is one thing. To say such
destruction is against Islam is another.

We  need to  understand the  difference  between the  views of  a
Muslim  person both  as  an individual  and as  a  Muslim. As  an
individual,  this  person could speak  out his/her thoughts. As a
Muslim,  it is next to impossible for the entire Muslim community
to denounce what Mohammed did several centuries ago - destruction
of statues and idols of gods/goddesses of other religions. In the
views  of hardcore  Islam followers like Taliban, ( those who are
members  of Taliban and others elsewhere who are in line with the
ideas  of  Taliban ) - it  is just impossible for these people to
condemn   the  destruction   of  statues   and  idols   of  other
cultures/religions.

A person born into a Christian or a Hindu family could live as an
atheist  in their  adult life. No one can force them. This person
has  denounced  his/her  belief  in  the  Gods/Goddesses  of  the
religion  of  their parents.  But can  a person  born in a Muslim
family  denounce  Allah and lead  a life  of a atheist publicly ?
