Unusual ways of rearing one's young
Dear Srivar,
I am happy that you liked the quotation of my kaavya.The reference deals with the tortise meditataion.
It is published from Chaukhamba Sanskrit Prakashan, Delhi. If you send me your mailing address, I will ask them to send you a complementary copy.By the way I have recently published "Upaasanaa-citaamani" in eight parts It is 4000 pages. It is on meditation.
With kind regards,
Rasik Vihari Joshi
De: Indology [mailto:INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk]En nombre de Srinivasa
Varakhedi
Enviado el: Jueves, 03 de Marzo de 2005 12:51 a.m.
Para: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Asunto: Re: Unusual ways of rearing one's young
Dear RVJTripathiji,
This is raelly very nice  composition. I enjoyed to read. Kindly let me know where this kavya is published from ?
regards,
srivara
Rasik Vihari Joshi Tripathi <jrasik at COLMEX.MX> wrote:
Dear Srivara,
I am quoting here a reference which may be useful to you:
My Sanskrit Mahakavya "Ramapratapacaritam" vol II p.1028
Bhakter lakSaNamasti kim Duliriva svANdam yathA bAlukA samstham palvala-samsthitAni kurute yA posaNam duratah/
tadvad dhyAnamapIha nAstri vimalA bhaktir yato jAlake
sprSTam saikata samsthite vigalitam tad dhyAna-bhangeNdakam/
Rasik Vihari Joshi
De: Indology [mailto:INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk]En nombre de Srinivasa
Varakhedi
Enviado el: Mi?rcoles, 23 de Febrero de 2005 11:35 p.m.
Para: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Asunto: Re: Unusual ways of rearing one's young
Yes. In BhAgavata-purANam as I remember, it is said that tortoise will rear their young by simply thinkig about them. The verse reads as "apatyamiva kUrmANAm.....". I will locate the exact verse and let you know in one or two days.
with regards,
srivara.
Martin Gansten wrote:
Does anyone know where and when the view was first expressed (in India)
that certain species rear their young simply by looking at or thinking
about them? And are there different versions of this idea? All suggestions
for sources are welcome.
Thanks in advance,
Martin Gansten
Yahoo! India Matrimony: Find your life partneronline.
Yahoo! India Matrimony: Find your life partneronline.
