vacant lecturship in Indian Religions  (new version)
The position of Lecturer of Indian Religions (0,8 fte) is vacant
at the University of Groningen.
Job description
The vacancy `lecturer Indian Religions',  with the specialization Hinduism
and/or Buddhism in South Asia, is in the Faculty of Theology and
Religious Studies. The position involves the duties usually undertaken by a
lecturer with regard to teaching, research and administration.
The following are particularly important:
- promoting the interests of Indian Studies within and outside the university as
well as contributing to relevant public discussions
- participating in the research program of the faculty.
Requirements
Required education/skills: University Graduate (PhD)
- a dynamic and enthusiastic approach to his/her subject area
- knowledge of innovative and pioneering research on the historical and
modern forms of the Indian religions
- fieldwork experience in South Asia and familiarity with anthropological
approaches
- the capacity to play an active role in the faculty's research into
the history of Hinduism
- a demonstrable interest in interdisciplinary co-operation
- excellent research skills, shown among other things by articles in
leading academic journals or international publications
- excellent teaching skills
- the capacity to contribute to a wide range of courses, including
anthropology, language courses of Sanskrit (preferably) and/or one of
the modern Indian languages.
Conditions of employment
Maximum salary amount in Euro's a month 4580
Employment basis: Permanent (tenure)
Maximum hours per week: 32
Additional conditions of employment:
The University of Groningen offers a salary dependent on qualifications
and work experience up to a maximum of  Euro 4580 (scale 12) gross per month
for  a full-time position.
Starting date: January 1, 2006.
Additional information about the vacancy can be obtained from:
Prof Dr Hans T. Bakker  (h.t.bakker at rug.nl), tel.: +31.50.3635819
Prof. J.N. Bremmer, dean faculty/chairperson Appointment Advisory
Committee, +31 50 3635579 work /
Telephone number: +31 50 5262503 home
E-mail address: j.n.bremmer at theol.rug.nl
Or additional information can be obtained through one of the following
links.
*  http://213.159.10.135/rug/vacatures/detail.cfm?Vacature_ID=5OW0W4W0
*   About the organization (http://www.rug.nl)
Interested candidates are requested to submit a cv, list of publications,
and brief research proposal (maximum: 5 pages).
Please note that the interviews will take place in the first week of
October 2005. If invited, you will be notified before September 1, 2005.
Applications must only  be send to: vmp at bureau.rug.nl
Application deadline is 1 July 2005
Applications should be sent to:
University of Groningen
Personnel and Organization Department
P.O. Box 72
9700 AB Groningen
The Netherlands
E-mail: vmp at bureau.rug.nl
When applying for this job always mention the vacancynumber AT205137
