Position in Asian Religions at Otago
The position below is shortly to be advertised by the University of 
Otago (http://www.otago.ac.nz/vacancies/index.html) In view of the 
short deadline I'm posting this now, and please feel free to forward 
the announcement. A confirmation path position means that the position 
is for five years in the first instance, and can be confirmed as 
permanent during or at the end of that period. The teaching load is 
three papers per year, research support is excellent. I'm happy to 
field further initial inquiries.
Will
UNIVERSITY OF OTAGO
Te Whare Wananga o Otago
Dunedin, New Zealand
Lecturer/Senior Lecturer in Religious Studies
(Confirmation Path)
?DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY AND RELIGIOUS STUDIES
Applications are invited for the confirmation path position of 
Lecturer/Senior Lecturer in the Department of Theology and Religious 
Studies in the area of Asian Religions.
The successful applicant will hold a PhD degree; will contribute to 
research-based knowledge, teaching and publications; teach 
undergraduate and postgraduate papers in the area of Asian Religions, 
including Islam, that complement the current strengths of the 
Department in Hinduism and South Asian Buddhism; and supervise 
postgraduate students.?The appointee will contribute to the 
administration and development of academic programmes and be part of 
the Department?s Distance Learning programme.
It is hoped that duties will commence 1 February 2006.
The position is at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level, but exceptionally 
well-qualified applicants may be eligible to be considered for 
appointment at a higher level. If an applicant is shortlisted for 
interview, whanau support is welcome.
Specific enquiries may be directed to Professor Paul Trebilco, Head of 
Department, Department of Theology and Religious Studies, Tel 03 479 
8798, Email 
paul.trebilco at stonebow.otago.ac.nz
Reference Number: A05/59.Closing Date: Tuesday 7 June 2005.
Dr Will Sweetman
Lecturer in Asian Religions
Department of Theology and Religious Studies
University of Otago
P.O. Box 56
Dunedin
New Zealand
+64 3 479 8793
will.sweetman at stonebow.otago.ac.nz
http://sweetman.orcon.net.nz/
