From d.wujastyk at UCL.AC.UK  Thu Jul 21 08:20:07 2005
From: d.wujastyk at UCL.AC.UK (Dominik Wujastyk)
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 05 09:20:07 +0100
Subject: Advertisement: Tibetology and Buddhist Studies, Vienna
Message-ID: <161227076575.23782.18180166122453244154.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Forwarded message:
------------------


The Department for South Asian, Tibetan and Buddhist Studies of the 
Faculty of Philological-Cultural Sciences at the University of Vienna 
announces a search to fill the position of University Professor (permanent 
contract) in

Tibetology and Buddhist Studies.

Employment is expected to start October 1, 2006.

The preconditions for appointment are: a doctoral degree in the relevant 
area awarded by an Austrian or equivalent international university; 
outstanding qualifications in academic research and teaching; pedagogical 
and didactic skills; qualification for administrative and organizational 
leadership; international experience pertinent to the academic field; and 
where applicable, relevant practical experience outside the university 
context.

Applicants should demonstrate excellence in research, publication and 
teaching in either Tibetology or Buddhist Studies; their competence should 
extend into the respectively other field. The research and teaching focus 
should be in one or more of the following areas of Tibetology and Buddhist 
Studies: history of philosophy, of religion, and of literature. Source 
materials in the original languages should play a prominent role in 
research, publication and teaching. Consideration of the social dimension 
is welcome. Candidates should have an interdisciplinary approach, show 
methodological awareness in research, and be willing to cooperate with the 
South Asia side of the Department. Among applicants with Buddhist Studies 
as their primary field, those whose research relates to the South Asian 
traditions of Buddhism will be given preference.  Applicants with 
Tibetology as their primary field are expected to be competent in modern 
Tibetan.

Applicants must be proficient in German or ready to acquire competence 
within the span of two years.

Habilitation or corresponding qualification in the academic field is 
desired.

Applications should include a Curriculum Vitae, a publication list, and a 
survey of courses and lectures held; the five publications most relevant 
to the profile of the position are to be indicated (with reference to 
Internet sites if applicable). A resum? (maximum three pages) outlining 
how the applicant would develop the respective field at the University of 
Vienna is also expected (cf. the Dept. website at: www.univie.ac.at/istb). 
Applications are to be submitted (postmarked) by

October 31, 2005

to: Dekanat der Philologisch-Kulturwissenschaftlichen Fakult?t der 
Universit?t Wien, Dr. Karl Lueger-Ring 1, A-1010 Vienna, Austria, Europe.

The University aims at an increased representation of women among its 
staff, especially in leading positions and among the academic faculty, and 
therefore encourages qualified women to apply.  In the case of equal 
qualification, preference will be given to female applicants.

Kennzahl (Reference number): 110-2004/2005





