Position in South Asia Media Studies at the University of Michigan
Dear Indologists,
I am forwarding the following ad for a position in South Asia Media Studies at the University of Michigan.  Please circulate it to interested individuals.  All correspondence regarding the position should be directed to the address given in the ad, and not to me personally.  Thanks.
Madhav M. Deshpande
University of Michigan
The Department of Screen Arts & Cultures and the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures at the University of Michigan invite applications for a tenure-track position in South Asian Media Studies, beginning in September 2006.  Appointment is possible at any rank. A variety of sub-fields within South Asian film and television studies are possible.  A candidate should be able to teach courses from introductory undergraduate lecture courses through graduate seminars, to supervise doctoral dissertations, and to participate actively in department programs as well as in area studies initiatives within a university community that encourages interdisciplinary efforts.  Proficiency in at least two relevant languages is an advantage.  We seek candidates who share a commitment to historically grounded scholarship that is both rigorous and original and who are drawn to the intellectual opportunities afforded by programs of significant contextual depth and theoretical sophistication.  A Ph.D. in media/film studies or a related field is preferred. The University of Michigan is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer.  Women and minorities are encouraged to apply.  Applicants should provide a CV, letters of recommendation, writing samples, evidence of teaching excellence and a research statement.  The University is supportive of the needs of dual career couples.  Review of applications will begin on 15 October and continue until the position is filled.  Applications must be received by 15 November..  Please send materials to South Asian Media Studies Search Committee, Department of Screen Arts & Cultures, The University of Michigan, 2512 Frieze Building, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285.
