Etymologies of Zaakya (was: Oak and the Tribe of the Buddha)
Re: Matthew Kapstein's observation on the connection of Zaakya with zak:
  Vinayak
udrakavastu (Derge Kanjur 6, 'dul ba, da 202a5-b4; sTog 
Kanjur 6, 'dul ba, tha 299b6-300b1), not very poetically:
Then the Blessed One spoke to the young brahmin ?mra saying: "Young 
brahmin, long ago there appeared a king named ?k
v?ku Suj?ta, and 
King ?k
v?ku Suj?ta had four sons: Ulk?mukha, Karakar??, 
Hastikaniya?sa, and N?pura." Having been banished by King ?k
v?ku 
Suj?ta because of some offence, they led their own full sisters and 
went to another land, and arriving there, in due order they came 
before too very long to the abode of Kapila on the bank of the river 
Bhag?rath? in the region of the Himalaya. And they dwelt there having 
built huts from branches and leaves of trees. Then, avoiding their 
full sisters, they cohabited with their agnatic half-sisters.Then 
remaing there [for some time], sons and daughters were born. Then at 
some later time King ?k
v?ku Suj?ta recalled his beloved sons, and 
spoke to his ministers, saying: "Peasants, where are my sons?" "Lord, 
thanks to some transgression, they were banished, and taking their 
own full sisters, they went to another land, and arriving there, in 
due order [they settled] on the bank of the river Bhag?rath? in the 
region of the Himalaya, where they dwell having given birth to sons 
and daughters." Then King ?k
v?ku Suj?ta spoke to his minsters 
saying: "Peasants, were my sons able to do alright?" "Lord, they were 
able." Then King ?k
v?ku Suj?ta was pleased, and stretching out his 
right hand he uttered a joyous proclamation: "Well, my sons were 
capable!" Because a distinguished person stated "Well, my sons were 
capable," they are famous under the name ??kya, the Able Ones.
Jonathan Silk
Department of  Asian Languages & Cultures
Center for Buddhist Studies
UCLA
290 Royce Hall
Box 951540
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1540
phone: (310)206-8235
fax:  (310)825-8808
silk at humnet.ucla.edu
