Test
This morning a thirtysomething lady from Germany left the household life and
became a buddhist nun ( agaarasmaa anagaariya.m pabbajanti ) at the
Dharmaayatanaya in Maharagama , Sri Lanka .
Bhikkhu Bodhi of the Buddhist Publication Society ( BPS ) , Kandy was
present at this occassion as was our Director Bhikkhu Dhammavihaari (
formerly Professor Jotiya Dhiirasekera ) and during their conversation
Venerable Bodhi had quoted from memory a passage from the Jaataka . Having
come to our Institution for his midday meal , after the meal when showing
him around our facilities Venerable Dhammavihaari requested me to use the
search facility of our Tripitaka Computer Program to locate the passage
quoted by Venerable Bodhi to him in the morning . After locating the passage
in the dasaratha jaataka of the ekaadaskanipaata of the jaatakapali , we
discussed its 
meaning further . The discussion had to be terminated prematurely before we
could read the english translation as Venerable Bodhi's transport back to
Kandy had arrived . 
Having given the history behind the reason for this " TEST " , 
I thought it would be useful to quote the Jataka passage to all of you on
the Insight , JBE , Indology , Buddha - L & Buddhist lists and see what
response it evokes .
        ekova macco acceti ekova jaayate kule
        sa??ogaparamaatveva sambhogaa sabbapaa.nina.m .
                J iv , 127 [ dasarathajaataka.m # 461 ] 
                Pali Text Society Edition , London .
                J  i , 406 [ verse 1622 , dasarathajaataka.m # 461 ] 
                Buddha Jayanti Tripitaka Series Edition , Sri Lanka ., 1983 .
        " One mortal dies - to kindred ties born is another straight :
        Each creature's bliss dependent is on ties associate " .
                Jaataka Stories iv , 81 ., Book XI .
                translated by W . H . D . Rouse , M . A .
                sometime fellow of Christ's College , Cambridge .
                under the Editorship of Professor E . B . Cowell .
                Pali Text Society Edition , London ., 1957 .     
        [ re - translated by Bhikkhu Dhammavihari ] 
        " Humans depart from this world singly , they are born into families
singly . Successful communion of all beings is primarily based on
specific relationships " .    
Cp              ... sa.myogaparamaatveva sambhogaa sabbapaa.nina.m ...
                S i , 225 ( 8 ) .        
                Pali Text Society Edition , London .,    .
                S i , 402 [ 11. 1 . 8 , 254 ] .
                Buddha Jayanti Tripitaka Series Edition , Sri Lanka ., 1960 .
With Muditaa
Aru.na Ila'ngasi'mha
IBRIC
ibric at sri.lanka.net
