Field trip to India: HELP!
Dear Beatrice,
You have had a vast number of highly informed replies to your query
about filming MSS in India.  My experience of photographing Skt. MSS in
Indian libraries supports the view that
a) almost any modern 35mm camera with ttl light metering will do an
        excellent job;
b) black and white film is simplest, cheapest, and normally adequate
        (but colour film is much more easily bought in India);
c) don't use a digital camera (it is unnecessary for your aims);
d) a tripod and shutter-release cable is a great help if you are doing
        more than a score of leaves; an automatic film wind is also a
        great help;
I think that almost more important than anything is that you should be
as familiar as possible with your camera.  Use it a lot before you go;
try photographing documents in different lights, etc. Get comfortable
with the tool.  Stay as low-tech as you can (within limits).  Keep it
simple ...!
Overwhelmingly the most important point about photographing MSS is the
human relationship that you are able to build up with the custodians of
the collection you are visiting.  In spite of the severe difficulties
frequently put in our way, sometimes for apparently daft reasons,
one has to try to retain a deep respect for these curators.  They must
continue to sit in their dusty offices, long after we have jetted off.
In my "manuscript" trip three weeks ago to Mysore and Trivandrum, I had
limited success in Mysore, but more so in Trivandrum.  In both cases,
the outcome of my visit was a mixture of photographs and photocopies.
May I ask which libraries you will be visiting?
This topic is crying out for a FAQ to be written.  Any volunteers?  The
Asia-h material on filming would be an ideal starting point for a
precis.  Names of libraries, librarians, summaries of experiences, would
all be useful additions.
If anyone starts the FAQ, I'll put it up on the INDOLOGY web page, with
full credits.
Dominik Wujastyk,
Wellcome Institute,
183 Euston Road,
London NW1 2BE.
FAX: +44 171 611 8545
email: d.wujastyk at ucl.ac.uk
For my PGP public key etc., see my WWW home page:
http://www.ucl.ac.uk/~ucgadkw/wujastyk.html
