Field trip to India: HELP!
 I will be going to India in a month or so to collect some Sanskrit
manuscripts, and I need to take a camera with me. Could someone kindly
explain to me what would be the advantage of taking a digital camera?
Could you please tell me in detail what kind of materials I need to take
with me?  If a non-digital camera is better, what type of camera and film?
If digital, again, what kind?
If I take a digital camera, can I use it with a laptop Mac? What type of
battery-powered Mac would be the best? How much RAM, what size of hard
drive?  What type of backup/storage device?
I'd sincerely appreciate it immensely if you could kindly take the time to
answer my questions.  I'm really in need of advice here.  I'm drowning in
an ocean of ignorance. Please help!
With best wishes,
Beatrice
Hello Beatrice,
It was not clear to me, whether it is the manuscripts you intended to photograph. 
What you intend to photograph might  effect the best choice of equipment.
If you would like to discuss this with me in more detail, please send email to me
at my address:
pp001460 at interramp.com
You might also profit from posting this question to some of the usenet groups
under the rec.photography hierarchy. 
My general experience of photography in India is as follows:
I don't know too much about digital cameras.  However the advice given
to me by my local camera expert before I went, was that the my Nikon
manual FM2 was probably about the best possible choice I could make for 
difficult climatic conditions, heat, dust, dampness, etc.  In general the principle
was the less delicate electronics one used the better.  We were not discussing
digtial cameras at all, however.
A  second camera body is also said to be advisable if possible.
I took a Nikon FM2, several lenses and 200 speed color  film, which I used
indoors and out.
The camera served me very well.  Most of the prints were good to
very good.  some were under exposed.
 I did wish  I had taken some higher speed film for low light conditions
without flash,  I carried the film roles back in a  waist pack and had them developed in
the U.S.  It is usually possible to have the photos scanned and digitized in that way
once they are printed.  In general I understand from my friends more experienced in
digital equipment that the quality of non-difital photos is still superior to digital.
Of course the usefulness of one or another depends upon your purposes in part.
If you intend to photograph manuscripts other equipment, such as a tripod would
be necessay, as would careful planning of lighting and lens length.  Again, I invite
further questions to my email address.  
Best Wishes,
Nancy
