H-E-L-P! Question about Hindi--a moment of your time
Attention all Hindi speakers,
I am on the lip of getting a linguistics paper published, but the
editor wants me to collect more data about Hindi. The data take
the form of native speakers' intuitive reactions to a set of
sentences. You can help save my butt just by examining five
little Hindi sentences and rating them according to a four-point
scale.  If you are a native speaker of Hindi, may I please beg a
moment of your time?
First would you please answer the following question:
    Do you regard yourself as a native speaker of Hindi?
    YOUR RESPONSE [yes/no]:
Next, would you rate the following sentences with a 1, 2, 3, or 4?
A rating of 4 means that the sentence is perfectly normal and
acceptable.  A rating of 1 means that the sentence is clearly
unacceptable as an utterance in Hindi.  If you feel that the
sentence falls in between these extremes, you may use 3 or 2.
A rating of 3 would mean that the sentence is somewhat questionable,
and a rating of 2 would mean that the sentence is highly
questionable.  Please, no decimal points! Of course, it is your
INTUITIVE reaction that I am interested in.  Here are the sentences:
1.  ilaa chote bacce khojtii rahtii hai
    YOUR RESPONSE [1 (=bad), 2, 3, or 4 (=good)]:
2.  ilaa khoe-hue bacce khojtii rahtii hai
    YOUR RESPONSE [1, 2, 3, or 4]:
3.  anil ne jaapaanii larkiyaaN dekhiiN
    YOUR RESPONSE [1, 2, 3, or 4]:
4.  ilaa bacce hameshaa khojtii rahtii hai
    YOUR RESPONSE [1, 2, 3, or 4]:
5.  ilaa khoe-hue hameshaa bacce khojtii rahtii hai
    YOUR RESPONSE [1, 2, 3, or 4]:
Please send your responses to me directly:
    wescoat at lisa.lang.osaka-u.ac.jp
Your sharing your intuitions will be an IMMENSE help to me. I
thank you in advance.  By the way, if you have any comments about
these sentences or this questionnaire, I would be happy to see
them.  However, in order to allow me to perform a statistical
analysis, please do not forget to rate each sentence with a 1,
2, 3, or 4.
Many, many, many thanks,
Michael T. Wescoat
