From gthursby at religion.ufl.edu  Sun Jan 28 02:53:52 1996
From: gthursby at religion.ufl.edu (Gene Thursby)
Date: Sat, 27 Jan 96 21:53:52 -0500
Subject: Field trip to India: HELP!
Message-ID: <161227022438.23782.9455910597320874379.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>


	With regard to old-fashioned, silver-based photography, my
experience in India (from time to time since 1968) matches most of what
was reported by Nancy {pp001460 at interramp.com} in response to the call 
for HELP! from Beatrice.  Part of the exchange is repeated below.
	I've used the least-costly 33mm SLR Nikon equipment (2 Nikkormat
camera bodies, 1 manual and 1 semi-automatic) and a variety of Nikon
lenses -- including a quite good macro lens that gives very close focus. 
At times I've used a release cable and portable copy stand.  Although the
stand is inconvenient to carry, it assures camera stability in low light
when copying items that cannot be permitted to be taken into bright light. 
For very slow exposures, the reflecting mirror in the SLR camera can be
closed after correct focus and exposure is established. That further
reduces vibration during exposure of the film at very slow speeds.
	I rarely use color print film but have appreciated the stability 
of Kodachrome 25 slide film -- which is very slow and best in sunlight.
	In major cities, when well advised, one can find very good photo 
developing that will match professional quality nearly anywhere.  This is 
all the more remarkable because the quality and quantity of available 
water, chemical, and paper is uneven to say the least.  However, one MUST 
be well advised about where to have film developed and printed.
	The advantage of local printing, of course, is to ensure that one 
has got results that repay everyone's effort, time, and travel.  Digital, 
rather than traditional silver-based photography, would free one from 
dependence on local developing/printing professionals, or else from a 
slightly worrisome wait until one is back at home).
	Finally, have you made arrangements in advance for permissions --
to see the documents, to move them, to photograph or otherwise copy them? 
If not, begin at once to collect letters that will attest to your bona
fides, your purpose, etc.  Unless you (or your senior colleagues) are well
connected with the people who are responsible for the care of the MSS or
other materials, it is possible that you may have a long wait and may need
to go through many steps to achieve what you want -- or could fail to gain
access.  After all, in most instances, the owners, caretakers, etc., are
extending a significant courtesy when they allow foreigners to copy local
materials of interest.  Increasingly, the question is put explicitly: 
"what are foreigners doing to enhance the local culture on which their
professional success depends?"  Please forgive the uninvited moralizing.
	Gene Thursby, University of Florida

> ---------------Original Message---------------
>  I will be going to India in a month or so to collect some Sanskrit
> manuscripts, and I need to take a camera with me. Could someone kindly
> explain to me what would be the advantage of taking a digital camera?
> Could you please tell me in detail what kind of materials I need to take
> with me?  If a non-digital camera is better, what type of camera and film?
> ----------End of Original Message----------
> 
> Hello Beatrice,
> It was not clear to me, whether it is the manuscripts you intended to photograph. 
> What you intend to photograph might  effect the best choice of equipment.
> 
> My general experience of photography in India is as follows:
> I don't know too much about digital cameras.  However the advice given
> to me by my local camera expert before I went, was that the my Nikon
> manual FM2 was probably about the best possible choice I could make for 
> difficult climatic conditions, heat, dust, dampness, etc.  In general the principle
> was the less delicate electronics one used the better.  We were not discussing
> digtial cameras at all, however.
> 
> A  second camera body is also said to be advisable if possible.
> I took a Nikon FM2, several lenses and 200 speed color  film, which I used
> indoors and out.
> 
> The camera served me very well.  Most of the prints were good to
> very good.  some were under exposed.
> 
>  I did wish  I had taken some higher speed film for low light conditions
> without flash,  I carried the film roles back in a  waist pack and had them developed in
> the U.S.  It is usually possible to have the photos scanned and digitized in that way
> once they are printed.  In general I understand from my friends more experienced in
> digital equipment that the quality of non-difital photos is still superior to digital.
> Of course the usefulness of one or another depends upon your purposes in part.
> 
> If you intend to photograph manuscripts other equipment, such as a tripod would
> be necessay, as would careful planning of lighting and lens length.  Again, I invite
> further questions to my email address.  
> 
> Best Wishes,
> Nancy
 





