	From non-Jain academic and religious circles, a number of 
prevailing contentions and generalizations regarding the origins, 
sociology, philosophy, personages, and actual practice of Jainism do not, 
to varying degrees, correspond to reality.  They conflict with the 
well-preserved Jain - and even Hindu - histories, philosophies, and 
traditions, as well as the socio-religious experience of the Jains 
themselves (which may be demonstrated by testimony).  These assertions 
can be found written on the pages of most of the acclaimed works on 
Jainism authored by non-Jains since the late nineteenth century.  Though 
disagreement among scholars is natural and often beneficial, the 
propounders of these postulates have effectively ignored the voluminous 
bodies of evidence to their contrary.  The major views are the following (and 
can be found, almost verbatim, in most encyclopedias):

	1.  "Jainism is an offshoot of Brahmanism.  Jain philosophy developed 
	out of the Samkhya and Vedanta schools of Hindu philosophy, and the 
	conduct and way of life of the Jain ascetics was derived from that of 	
	the Hindu Brahmins."

	2.  "Mahavira was the founder of Jainism.  He was greatly influenced 
	by the Upanishadic texts and  the atmosphere of disdain towards the 
	Brahmins, in which he grew up.  Under such influences, he adopted the 
	doctrine of 'non-injury' [Ahimsa]."

	3.  "Jainism is a heterodox 'sect' which arose with Buddhism and the 
	Ajivika sect as a protest against Vedic ritualism and the caste 
	system.  Jainism, like its contemporary sect Buddhism, denies the 
	authority of the Vedas and the Brahmanic social heirarchy.  It was 
	founded in the sixth century, B.C. as a manifestation of the 
	'intellectual ferment' of the world during that time."

	4.  "Jainism is a religion of the warrior caste [the Kshattriyas], 
	and is the product of social tension that [supposedly] developed 
	between the warrior caste and the priestly caste [the Brahmins] of 
	ancient India."

	5.  "The Jain reverance for life has an animistic basis.  Jain 
	asceticism, like all forms of Indian asceticism, came about as a result 
	of the environmental instability of the Indian subcontinent."

	6. "The Jains are primarily merchants, bankers, and moneylenders, and 
	form a small subcaste within the larger Hindu society."

	7.  "Jainism is atheistic.  It negates the value of human existence."

	8.  "Jainism is a religion of extreme asceticism.  It advocates 
	committing suicide by starving oneself to death, and self-torture, as 
	the holiest acts a Jain can perform."
 
 	Some of these contentions were first enunciated by Western 
scholars who were (and, to a lesser extent, still are) accustomed to 
understanding civilizations in terms of empires, ethnic and social 
conflicts, and strictly dateable personages and events.  Therefore, their 
treatment of India's history has, until relativly recently, been ridden with 
over-generalizations and arbitrary quantizations of artificially 
construed historical periods.  (For example, the orientalist Max Muller 
produced the date of 1500 B.C. as the time of the composition of the first 
Vedic hymns by first assuming that the Vedas were completed by 500 B.C., the 
time of Gautama Buddha; then, considering the five parts of the Vedic 
literatures - the Brahmanas, Samhitas, etc. - he arbitrarily assigned exactly 
200 years to each  of the five.  Then, making another assumption that the 
composition of these parts were confined to contiguous time periods,  he 
added 500 + 5[200] = 1500 B.C. to obtain his dating of the Vedas.  To 
this very day, Western scholars have anchored their scheme of Indias 
religious and cultural history around the same date of 1500 B.C.; and 
with linguistic arguments, the Sanskrit language has come to be 
regarded as having began at that time.  Dating methods such as these, to 
which the Jain tradition has also been subjected, are riddled with biases and 
are therefore deplorable examples of counterproductive scholarship.)  Yet, 
such contentions regarding Jainism have gone relatively unchallenged by the 
scholarly community at large.  Each of them, however, can be found to be 
either inaccurate distortions or, at best, premature conclusions.


Two General Approaches.

	Two general approaches to the study of Jainism and Jain society 
appear have been undertaken by non-Jain scholars.  To Western scholars, 
the Jains have generally been seen as an oddity in their perceived 
framework of Indian civilization.  The division between the monk/nuns and the 
laity, as well as the great fusion of theory and practice exemplified by the 
conduct of the monastic and lay communities, are ceaselessly characterized by 
some as having been born of primitive fears and taboos.  Jain philosophy and 
cosmology, while incredibly accurate and  estimable in the context of 
modern scientific thought, have received scant attention from Western 
Indologists.   The philosophically based concepts of Ahimsa and 
Anekantavad, two central and unique components of Jain philosophy and conduct, 
are rarely given their due treatment.
   
	Rather, elements of the Jain world-view are excised from their 
orderly contexts, stripped of their practical implications to the life of 
the spiritual aspirant, and explained away with more denigrating 
characatures:  "extreme asceticism", "hero-worship", "self-denial", 
"world-negation", etc., all somehow rooted in environmental 
impredictability.  And some, like the explanation for dharma and adharma 
(the non-material media of motion and rest in Jain cosmology) as being 
philosophical analogues of a kind of primitive Indian superstition of 
good and bad "airs", are quite absurd.   Other products of this approach 
are shown in contentions 4 through 8 in the above listing.  In short, 
owing to the fact that the philosophy, social structure, and way of life 
for which Jainism has stood, as a whole, simply do not fit into the 
established Western scheme of Indology, the Jain philosophy, 
spirituality, and moral doctrines are, in the mind of many an Indologist, 
either non-entities, or, primitive anomalies born of unusual environmental 
circumstances.

	The other approach places emphasis on evaluating Jainism's origins 
and development before and during the lifetime of Mahavira.   Regarding 
the Jain tradition, the central endeavor of many non-Jain scholars of 
Indian origin has been to trace its philosophy and doctrines back to 
Indian intellectual movements and Brahmanic sources.  The resulting 
contentions appear in 1 through 4, above.  While scholars taking this 
approach do tend to enter their treatment of Jainism with a mindset of high 
estimation of Jain philosophy, spirituality, and moral doctrines, they 
apparently encounter difficulty in perceiving in them any manner of 
originality.  Though they may applaud  Mahavira and the Jains as important 
players in the intellectual heritage of the subcontinent, they nevertheless 
style them as uplifted dissenters or disgruntled Hindus, not as members of an 
independent religious and cultural tradition (which, as earlier 
mentioned, is a view inconsistent with the Brahmanic literature).  The  
chauvinistic undertones of such contentions may also contribute to 
grounds for their dismissal.



	These two trends in non-Jain pursuits in the study of the Jains and 
Jainism must be thoroughly understood by the lay Jain community in order 
for their effects on the Jains' perceptions of themselves to be apparent.
This endeavor of Jain scholarship needs to be directed towards three salient 
goals:  understanding Jain philosophy and the Jain way of life for what they 
truly are, and in the manner in which they were actually meant to be 
understood; examining how common perceptions of Jainism and the Jains have 
come to deviate so conspicuously from the actual Jainism of theory and 
practice; and making final evaluations of the resulting conclusions in order 
to fascilitate the easy affecting of change.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------
On Mon, 5 Feb 1996, Raphael Carter wrote:

> Forwarded message:
> Date: Mon, 5 Feb 1996 22:36:57 -0600
> To: jain-list at wavefront.com
> From: cno690 at casbah.acns.nwu.edu (Carmen Nobel)
> 
> I'm a journalism graduate student at Northwestern. I'm in a religion
> reporting class this quarter, and we're studying how and if the media in
> Chicago cover different religions. I've been assigned to research and cover
> Jainism in the Chicago area. If anyone knows of any Jain-related groups or
> individuals in the Chicago area and can share that information with me, I
> will be grateful. Also, I'm interested in common misconceptions about
> Jainism and pressing issues that you might want the media to cover. (The
> Pizza Hut issue, for example.)
> 
> I'll appreciate any input.
> 
> Thanks very much.
> 
> --
> Carmen D. Nobel
> Northwestern University








