From mmaggi at sinergia.it  Sun Apr 28 15:16:02 1996
From: mmaggi at sinergia.it (mmaggi at sinergia.it)
Date: Sun, 28 Apr 96 15:16:02 +0000
Subject: Khotanese Buddhist tale
Message-ID: <161227024114.23782.14179724386477811770.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear members of Indology,

I am translating the Late Khotanese Buddhist tale contained in the
manuscript Pelliot Chinois 2928. The tale has not been fully  identified so
far and is unfortunately incomplete (the text breaks off after line 41). My
provisional translation is appended below. Does anyone know this story in
other languages?

Thanks for any suggestions.


Mauro MAGGI
mmaggi @sinergia.it


P 2928.4-41 Thus it has been heard. So, in another time the all-knowing
Buddha Sakyamuni dwelt in the land of Sravasti in the Jetavana together with
(his) pupils. At that time a householder set up house in the city of
Sravasti and took a wife according to (his) family so as is custom. Then,
together with (his) wife he experienced plays (and) pleasures until she
became pregnant. The lady there at that time, when eight, nine, ten months
had elapsed for her, in (due) course gave birth to a male child,
good-looking, beautiful, with complete senses as necessary, with (all)
senses, very lovely, rosy like a lotus in complexion, beautiful in the
measure of the limbs, similar to a prince in appearance. At the time of his
birthday feast they gave him a name according to his family. Thus, he grew
and grew up just like a lotus in cool water. At another time, the
householder spoke to (his) wife. He told her: `Here now, a son has been
born, endowed with virtues, who then, very well-tidied (and) well-bathed,
having worn good dresses, garments and manly ornaments, has gone out
togehter with (his) friends with the lute. So, he has gone in the street
now'. There at that time there was another large house where a minister of a
prominent family (but) without (noble) qualities dwelt, harsh, that one
whom, here in our land, they call `the ox-like fellow'. (One) night the
minister was not at his home. There at that time a girl suddenly rose
glorious then, who (was) perfect, splendid (and)  unconceivable in such a
way that there is not (the like) in the world, a very confusing female
person, excellent (and) beautiful in appearance. The householder's son, at
that time, very beautifully dressed, adorned (and) very well-bathed pierced
<her> in the hearth <with> the poisoned arrow of love. Incurable, she
offered a brilliant garland of flowers to him so that the boy saw (it but
could) not perceive (?) who ever had thrown (it). Now, he saw the garland at
that moment. So, the girl who was staying in the chamber went half out very
brilliant in appearance just such as one sees (one's) beautiful love
visibly. So, Visvakarman or Kamadeva himself had prepared her possessed with
(all) womanly virtues. She laughed at him when he looked at her in love. So
much the woman (was) faultless in appearance (that) he lost his mind there
at that time. Struck by love for her, he did not leave from the place, he
just sat down there in front of her. In the chamber in delight, they touch
(and) blow musical instruments (and) look sadly at one another. Then at that
time the girl sent away the only old folk (who were) with them (and said) to
the boy secretly: `Sleep with me here tonight. King Prasenajit is now
enjoying a great banquet (and) comfort. The minister (my father) will remain
for six days in total in the palace as the treasurer'. So long he
experiences pleasure together with the girl according to (his) mind. He
became quite contented. He told her: `So, you are (my) beloved then'.
Therefore, he intended (to exchange) two rings. He told her: `I give (you)
right one (ring), O girl, (and) you take the second for me here (this)
evening. So great is (our) friendship!'. And he looks at her. She went as
swiftly as possible (to fetch the ring and) gave the ring (to him). She told
him: `(It was) ... (who) gave me this one that is in (your) hand ...






