PTS style Tipitaka CD-ROM ...$150
L.S. COUSINS wrote on the threelectronic Pali Tipitakaversions:
<NB: the numbering used inside the texts themselves also differs between 
PTS and Thai versions!>
  NB: SEE SEPARATE, forthc. ANNOUNCEMENT on this list.
<D. Wujastyk>: 
<L. COUSINS:>
OF COURSE: and not just "textual scholars" but anybody who has worked a
little bit with Pali texts knows that there are a lot of
textual/transmission problems in the texts. <<Cf. now also J. Silk's
message>>.This is not the Rgveda which has come down orally/written
without (almost) any changes. As O. v. Hinueber has frequently shown, the
Pali Canon has been subject to constant redactorial change even late in
this millennium. 
Clearly, it makes a difference, e.g., if a king deals, in matters of
state, with caara "spies" or cora "thieves"... (even if tax officials
anywhere seem to combine both aspects). 
Anybody who wants to work with a reliable text has to make use of the 4
versions represented by the PTS editions and which are now available on
the new CD-ROM (Sinhala, Burmese, Thai and Cambodian) -- though,
unfortunately, it now comes with a price tag of $150, differently from the
original intent of the Dhammakaya Foundation (as announced in Sept. 93). 
This version also has the avantage that it allows to search for other 
mistakes of the type described above (cora/caara) -- and that will allow 
you to solve your textual problems more easily as you will find plenty of 
evidence of such mistakes. In short: scholars who pay attention to the 
*exact* wording of the text need *this* electronic version.
If you are content, however, with just having *any* version (to have a
rough idea of the text/context) you can use the electronic Sinhala or Thai
versions or just use the printed 5-6 versions. (In that case, as has been
pointed out by others, you will loose some time in finding the
corresponding PTS version.)
WE HOPE SO, and cf. the original Dhammakaya announcemnet of Sept. 93...
THAT remains to be seen. I know that the 400 Dhammakaya volunteers have
typed in the text with (very) good accuracy. Since then, the texts have
been proofread several times. They also have typed in commentaries and
*other* very useful materials. It remains to be seen what the PTS will allow
on CD. 
That might be so. The copyright question, however, is moot.I wonder how you 
can claim copyright on, say Oldenberg's ed. of the Vinaya made a hundred
years ago, when the PTS began to copyright its texts only in the Sixties...
Let some clever British lawyers figure that out.
Yes, find some other way. And remember that Oldenberg etc. gave their work
free... to have the texts available for scholarship (etc.). A hundred
years ago that was by printing them, but now......
Or, to be more radical: Since we (almost all of us) type our new texts
and translations we can as well put them on a server somewhere and get rid
of overpriced publications (especially in some EUROPEAN COUNTRIES)..... 
Let us return to this topic 10 years from now... 
M. Witzel
Wales Prof. of Sanskrit
Harvard University
617-495 3295
witzel at husc3.harvard.edu
