kaarikaa, aagama
	While I have heard some of Aklujkar's ideas and have now read 
brief allusions to them in his message, it would be inappropriate for me 
to respond to his criticisms of my views until I see them in print.  I 
will of course respond to them in appropriate ways, once they appear in 
print in their finalized form.
	In any case, I found the following remarks most interesting: 
	I would like to draw attention to my discussion of relatively 
late Buddhist Sanskrit texts like Lalitavistara which shows that the 
Buddhist tradition by this time shows an increasing absorption of both 
the Brahmans as a social category and its prestige, as well as the Vedic 
traditions of the Brahmans.  In fact the text says that the Buddhist gods 
taught the Mantravedashaastra to the Brahmans.  I related this rising 
star of the Brahmans within the Buddhist tradition to the fact that 
almost all the Mahayana teachers were born Brahmans converted to 
Buddhism, apparently without shedding all the Brahmanical baggage.  For 
details, see my Sanskrit and Prakrit, Sociolinguistic Issues, Motilal 
Banarsidass, 1993, pp. 7-8.  There are indeed signs of fluidity to be 
found all over the place.
	Currently, I am working on a text called VedavicaaraH by Dvivedi 
DraviDa Shyaamashaastri composed around 1890s.  Among other things, the 
text refers to practices of Brahmans which are contrary to what is 
prescribed in the orthodox tradition (asaampradaayika).  The author says 
that acts like pulling out one's hair and worshipping the Caityas are 
prescribed in the Shaastras of the Naastikas, and yet many Aastika 
Brahmans perform these Naastika acts.  While the author clearly views 
this as despicable, there is a clear admission of behavioral fluidity.
	Another interesting discussion occurs in the Mahaabhaazya
(Kielhorn edn, vol. I, p. 3).  An objector says that if any cited verses
are authoritative, then even a verse such as the following would be
authoritative: "If a whole row of wine-pots with the color of Udumbara,
when consumed, does not take one to heaven, how could it take one to
heaven consumed during a sacrifice?"  Patanjali responds by saying that
this verse was sung by its honorable author under delusion (pramattagiita
eza tatrabhavataH).  However, what comes from this honorable author when
he is not deluded would be authoritative (yas tv apramattagiitas tat
pramaaNam).  After classifying some sayings of an honorable person as
deluded, and therefore, unacceptable, Patanjali still leaves room to
accept other sayings of the same person, if they do not exhibit delusion. 
Of course, the most important point here is that the evaluative framework
of Patanjali, or what he would consider delusion or lack of delusion, is
indeed Brahmanical.  While evaluating the question of borrowing Buddhist
ideas by authors like BhartRhari or GauDapaada, one needs to first
investigate the criterion of acceptability of views for an author like
BhartRhari or GauDapaada.  If certain ideas from non-Brahmanical
traditions were perceived as being not contradictory to the Vedic
tradition (vedashaastra- avirodhii tarkaH), their acceptance would not
necessarily signal a move across the Brahmanical and Buddhist divide in
the author's own perception, though it may seem like a move to an outside
observer.  Also consult the revealing discussion by Shankara in his
Bhaazya on Brahmasuutra 2.1.1, where he explicitly argues in favor of
accepting only those portions of the SmRtis of Kapila etc. which do not
contradict the Vedas:  smRtivipratipattau satyaam na
shrutivyapaashrayaNaad anyan nirNayakaaraNam asti ...  shruty-anusaara-
ananusaara-vizaya-vivecanena ca san-maarge prajnaa samgrahaNiiyaa.
	Madhav Deshpande
On Fri, 3 May 1996 aklujkar at unixg.ubc.ca wrote:
