PTS style Tipitaka CD-ROM ...$150
Professor Witzel writes:
[>> Surely, most recensions of the Rgveda have not survived ?]
I would not be very confident of second hand information here. I would
suspect that it would tend to understate variation.
I certainly would not dispute this.
We probably shouldn't generalize here, as it varies greatly e.g. between
the texts of the fist four nikaayas and many of the verse texts of the
Khuddaka.
Not really. We simply don't have access to enough of the data to do this
properly yet.
Certainly the commentaries are transmitted in various versions. I am not
actually sure that they are always regional. There seems to have been a
fair amount of movement of manuscripts between different areas over a very
long period. The text of the commentaries is often established by the
sub-commentaries, of course.
Undoubtedly we need more of the raw data.
True.
No, the situation is far worse than that.
To take examples:
Mahaaniddesa, edited by such well-known scholars as L. de La Vallee Poussin
and E.J. Thomas, and relatively good. It used only two manuscripts and a
transcript of the Siamese edition. The Siamese edition was taken as base.
The one Sinhalese manuscript was 'frequently in a corrupt state'.
So one Burmese manuscript was used. But many of the nineteenth century
Burmese manuscripts are simply copies of the 'Fifth Council' edition done
under King Mindon.
Itivuttaka, used only 3 manuscripts. One was Burmese, two in Sinhalese
writing. At least one of the two in Sinhala script was probably a copy from
or descended from a Burmese original. So we can't actually be sure that the
Sinhalese tradition is represented at all.
Itivuttaka commentary, used one Sinhalese manuscript and printed Siamese
and Sinhalese editions. The pitfalls here are obvious !
Almost everyone in sight is already committed to other work. Some of that
is just as important e.g. the valuable dictionary work that is in hand. As
far as I know, the PTS would publish any newly edited works they were
offered, assuming they were done to a satisfactory standard, of course.
Agreed.
I do not think it is as simple as this. I have heard both points of view
and seen some of the correspondence.
I certainly hope that the Dhammakaya version will prove very useful.
It will be something to have the different editions, but what is really
needed is a major project to locate, identify and collate the manuscripts,
particularly the older ones.
Good news.
Various offers and proposals were made. They complained constantly about
the difficulty in getting replies to letters from Dhammakaya. Part of the
recent problem was probably changes in personnel at Dhammakaya.
I don't think a copyright note was required under English law to establish
copyright in those days. At all events, it is clear that none was put in
because at the time it was not seen as necessary.
I haven't seen this. Certainly, such a claim was _not_ made by either
Norman or Gombrich in conversation. I suspect that to some extent it was a
question of negotiating position.
Yes.
They certainly got that impression. Mettanando also talked in those terms
to me, but I realized there was an element of enthusiasm present. The PTS
Council took it rather literally.
Lance Cousins
MANCHESTER, UK
Email: mhcrxlc at dir.mcc.ac.uk
