Re, visit
Dear Avinash,
I have just joined your discussion group and as such missed the previous
discussion.  Please forgive me if I am repeating things which have already
been discussed ... I believe that Sanskrit is a language that grew to its
glory in India. There seems to be no trace of any accomplishments in this
language outside India, no known literature.  What I understand from my
memory of early history of India is that the Aryans who migrated to India
were nomads.  Now nomads, due to their unsettled way of life, here one day
and there the next ... there is no time to create, store, warehouse ideas or
material things.  They could not have I believe have much with them when
they came to India.  It is in India where they settled down.  And had
intercourse with a great civilization that was flourishing in India ..
Harappa and Mohenjo Daro may be windows on that civilization ... the
language of this  civilization which existed in India was probably Tamil or
its parent ... It is the interaction between this highly developed
civilization and the Aryan nomads that created this major creative period of
Man .. I think Sanskrit - Aryan link is a myth. All the great literature in
Sanskrit was created in India.  And that is when Sanskrit grew.  I think it
never was a lingua franca, it was a language of learning, a lanugage of
thinking,  a language of the scientists we call rishis, the "Seers".  I do
not think that we should give too much weight to the theory that Sanskrit as
we know it was brought to India by somebody from outside. It is conceivable
a "primitive language" did in all likelihood come with the nomads from
central asia.  
I believe the creation of Panini vyakaran is one of the greatest scientific
achievements of the human mind.  The begining of the scientific logic,
analysis and development of one of the first sciences ... the science of
language.  I believe the conception and the development of a Grammar was a
major breakthrough of Man.    Panini is a giant of a genius ... and then
there are hundreds of others who in their humility did not leave their name
on their creations ... because these creations were their offerrings in
their Brahmayoga.  I believe the creativity of the human mind unleashed in
India during the time  that Sanskrit classics were created  was of the
highest order ... and I also believe this creativity is a function of the
language, Sanskrit.  
I would very much like to know of Madhav's book, its title, and where I can
get hold of a copy.  I am interested in the discussion on the exceptions
mentioned in Ashtadhyayi, I would love to read about them in case someone
has got them.   Thanking you in advance, regards.  
