typing Sanskrit an other Indian languages
I would like to answer Sundaresan Vidyasankar but first I would like to
say something of a more general nature. 
1) I agree the idea of a discussion on Roman script presentation
of Indic words and texts  on the Conference in Bangalore is quite
convincing. (I do not remember all list members who proposed it so I do not 
mention names for fear of being unjust. My editor does not allow me to check
it right now - imperialism of programmers ;-)). Indian "Sillicon Valley"
seems a right spot for talk on computers. As for myself, I cannot afford to go to
India for the conference but I would ask for the right to suggest the
discussion should start with
* general questions and decisions on qualities of an acceptable future system
(points similar to what I presented before plus possibly some other)
and then move to
* either decide on more detailed but still general solutions or choose some 
of proposals in existence.
2) However, if the discussion had to be limited simply to making a choice of
a small group of trusted people who are computer experts and whose task
would be to decide on the matter  I think it would be better conducted in
the framework of the INDOLOGY list. (I do not know the program of the
Conference and this is the reason I think the participants may not be ready
for discussion on the problem and may decide on experts).
And now for Sundaresan Vidyasankar letter (BTW thank you for comments)
Let me add it is inconvenient to type on an ordinary tapewriter as well.
Still ...
Agreed. However, I would like it happen in an organized, rational way.
I was talking about general trend in new names formed with "inter",
"continental", "logy" etc. The names suggest some qualities which are not
always generaly ascribed to the objects of reference. It is obvious I cannot
prove any intentions of the creators of names. I am simply noticing
impressions their creation gives.
It is true that some of the national conventions differ. However, I think
the majority of national conventions (and perhaps all in Latin script) accept
that:
1) the first word of a sentence starts with a capital letter;
2) capital letters do not occur in the middle or at the end of a word.
Of course, I remember the international convention for Sanskrit et al. but
I think one should respect the ways of majority. As for "A" meaning long "a"
I think it is also less convenient than "aa".
They are not so easy to learn and they differ largely from other conventions 
what in the whole context makes them problematic.
Let me notice what you call "European conventions" is observed in both of
Americas, partly Africa, Australia and partly Asia. The capital letter means 
a lot for many people eg. God and god very often suggest different notions.
They should be taken into account while forming new conventions for
computers. It is a question of convenience in a larger context.
True.
Yes, it is. However, this is only one of the criteria.
Regards,
	Leslaw Borowski
