Accented Characters
On 11 Sep 96 at 21:35, Luis Gonzalez-Reimann wrote:
I can shed a little light, and offer a little help.
The problem isn't due to bad will: just historical accident. It
isn't difficult to correspond in many languages: I regularly exchange
email with colleagues, containing words using all sorts of accents in
French, German, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese and even Old English and
Russian. (I don't always understand them -- it's usually just a matter
of forwarding in interesting message in a language that I can barely
decypher -- but that's another matter   :-)
That correspondence works correctly because we are all using similar
equipment and software. A high percentage of the emails I receive
have accents correctly displayed ... but some have strange symbols
or blanks instead.
In the early days of computing, most systems used a byte consisting 
of seven bits, which allows one to count up to 127, i.e. there could 
be 127 characters for the alphabet, numerals, punctuation and a few 
unprintable control characters (e.g. carriage return). That is just enough 
to handle American English.
Pretty soon, these 7-bit systems were standardized into ASCII, the
American Code for Information Interchange. This was not cultural
imperialism: it was simply a result of the historical accidents that
a) most early computer were made in the USA and
b) American English does not usually use accented characters.
There wasn't even a UK pound sign in that code: it was purely
American. However, it became a de facto international standard,
because most computers were made in the US, even when they were used
elsewhere.
Shortly afterwards, 8-bit systems were introduced. These allow up to
255 characters, which is enough to include the accented characters
for most Western-European Latin-alphabet languages. The ASCII code
was therefore extended to handle 8-bits, and an MS-DOS codepage was
created for it.
(Actually, there were many codepages, but the Western-European one
was by far the commonest, again because of historical accident: the 
biggest markets for computers at that time happened to be in 
countries speaking W-E languages.)
Predictably, that code-page also became a de facto international
standard, simply because of its ubiquity. 
Unfortunately, it was designed by programmers rather than linguists, 
so the characters were in an illogical order, and not all were 
included: e.g. they forgot the oe ligature for French (the story goes 
that the French expert was ill on the day of the meeting ...) and 
entirely overlooked the a-tilde and o-tilde in Portuguese, apparently 
because they didn't have a Portuguese or Brazilian contact.
At roughly this point, other manufacturers lost patience, and started
creating their own sets of characters, sometimes better, but
inevitably incompatible with those used in the IBM/MS world. Some of
the standard Mac codepages date from about this time, and the UNIX
world has yet another set of codepages. The one thing that they all
agree on is the basic *unextended* ASCII set, i.e. everyone uses the
same set of characters in the first 127 positions, which is why many
writers ignore accented characters altogether: it isn't illiteracy,
it's just playing safe, by using only those characters which are 
certain to be handled correctly on all systems.
Naturally, the dominance of IBM/MS in the market meant that the
Extended ASCII also became a de facto standard.
The arrival of Windows coincided with a much-needed redesign,
leading to what is now the default "code-page" in W-E and US
Windows, also known as Latin-1 and by a variety of other names. This
is much better, and contains all the accented characters needed for
all the major W-E languages, but not in the same positions as they
had in the old DOS Extended ASCII. This leads to problems: accented
text created on one system appears on others with the accented
characters shuffled or missing.
Guess what? Latin-1 is now a de facto international standard too, in 
the sense that it dominates the market.
There are also codepages for other languages, e.g. Latin-2 for
Eastern-European Latin-alphabet languages, and others for Cyrillic,
Greek, Hebrew, Arabic ... but worldwide, more people use Latin-1
than anything else.
The last figures that I saw showed that about 83% of all the
computers in the world are IBM-compatible PCs, most of them running
Windows ... and that percentage was steadily increasing. All the
other systems added together don't even come close in sales terms,
and are losing even more ground. There is therefore very little
likelihood of any other system becoming a standard in fact, whatever
the international standards bodies might say. The standard is what
most people use, regardless of whether it is official or not, or
whether it's actually the best.
So what can we do to handle accents? Well, the picture isn't all bleak.
It is true that an 8-bit message sent through a 7-bit system tends to 
have the most significant bit cut off, with the result that 128 is 
subtracted from the code representing any accented letter: e.g. 
capital E-grave, which is character number 0200 in Latin-1, is 
converted into character 0072, which happens to be capital H!
However, some email and data-transfer systems can convert every
character into a code which can be expressed with 7 bits, send the
message, then convert the characters back again at the other end.
This works beautifully ... as long as the software at both ends of
the transfer is using the same codes. Some email programs don't, but 
standards are emerging and beginning to dominate the market. Many can 
handle codes from different types of computer, and convert them 
automatically. (When this doesn't work, the codes are simply 
displayed in unconverted form, so you get strange things such as 
"=C8" which is the hexadecimal notation for 0200, i.e. the capital 
E-grave. It is tedious, but possible, to convert them all back and 
read the result. The Windows calculator has a single-click converter
between hex, binary, octal and decimal notations.)
Even if the message arrives safely, it still has to be displayed,
and a message written in Latin-1 on a PC might have some characters
shuffled when displayed on a Mac using some other codepage, or a
UNIX box using a different one again. Again, some newer programs can
convert between codepages automatically, but the characters must
actually exist in the receiving computer before they can be
displayed.
One way round this problem is to agree with the recipient of the
message which codepage you are using. This is much easier nowadays,
because modern Macs can use TrueType fonts originally created for
PCs,  and other manufacturers are finding ways of representing the
IBM/PC codepages on their own systems.
Even if the email program does not allow the user to select which
font (and therefore the codepage) that the message should be
displayed in (and most modern ones do), it is possible to send an
email with a document attached. The email program converts the
document into 7-bit code, and sends it down the wires, and then the
receiver's email program converts it back again. The recipient then
displays it using the same layout as was used by the writer, if
necessary by transferring the document into a word-processor, which
is more likely to allow the choice of fonts.
This, of course, sometimes means that users have to buy special fonts 
in order to be able to make sense of messages.
As you can deduce from my name, I have Scottish ancestry. The Scots
are often accused of being incredibly mean with money. That is
untrue: they are as generous as anyone else. However, they have a
centuries-old tradition of hating to see scarce resources wasted.
(It's an ecological attitude towards money: use it, but don't waste
it. A sort of greenery about greenbacks.) I therefore have a
genetically-programmed horror of seeing anyone spend money
unnecessarily.
I have therefore created a number of fonts in many different codepage
layouts. You are all welcome to use them for academic purposes, i.e. 
not for commercial gain.
Theoretically, the fonts are shareware, but very few people ever
bother to pay for them, so in practice they are free. (Some nice 
people don't pay, but send me paperback detective novels in languages 
other than English, which is a nice thought: I give them to our 
language students ... after having read them myself, of course.)
Some fonts (LeedsBit and LeedsCyr, which between them can handle all
the Latin- and Cyrillic-alphabet languages) are already available on
FTP archive sites such as CICA, SIMTEL and their mirrors. They and
some rather more elegant ones (similar to Times New Roman, but not
copyright) that I am working on now will also be available on my WWW
page ... which doesn't actually exist yet, because my system
supervisor still hasn't allocated me a URL, but it will exist in a
few days, or so he says. It will probably be:
http://www.leeds.ac.uk/ucs/software_distribution/win3.x/
Failing that, try looking under my entry in the list of staff at:
http://www.leeds.ac.uk/ucs
I'm currently working on TrueType fonts which code accents and 
characters separately, so any accent(s) can be used with any 
character. These, of course, are entirely non-standard, and should be 
used only by consenting adults in private, but they do have their 
uses, e.g. for transliterating Indian languages, indicating scansion 
in verse, etc. These too, together with a couple of useful utility 
programs which make typing accented characters very simple, can be 
used by everyone on this list, and their colleagues.
I hope this helps.
Best wishes.
Alec McAllister.
Alec McAllister
Arts Computing Development Officer
Computing Service
University of Leeds
United Kingdom
tel 0113 233 3573
email: T.A.McAllister at Leeds.AC.UK
