NORD/LB WARBURG-WOLFENBUTTEL RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP 1997-98
Dear Indologists,
	Here are details of the fellowships offered by the Warburg Institute. 
Although they are not intended to support indological research, they 
are open to projects involving historical comparative East-West studies.  
				Francois Quiviger 
**************************************************
(This information may also be found on the Warburg Institute Web site --
http://www.sas.ac.uk/warburg)
The Norddeutsche Landesbank has generously funded a four-month Research 
Fellowship to enable a younger scholar to spend two months at the Warburg 
Institute, University of London, and two months at the Herzog August 
Bibliothek Wolfenbuttel, pursuing research into the cultural and 
intellectual history of early modern Europe.
The Warburg Institute
The Warburg Institute is dedicated to the interdisciplinary study of the 
classical tradition - in the sense of those elements in European thought, 
art and institutions that have evolved out of the cultures of the ancient 
world.  Its Library and Photographic Collection are designed and arranged 
to encourage research into the processes whereby one culture learns from 
another, and different fields of thought and art act on one another.  
They are particularly concerned with continuities between the ancient 
Mediterranean civilizations and the cultural and intellectual history of 
post-classical Europe, especially in the period to c. 1800.
The Herzog August Bibliothek Wolfenbuttel
Over the past twenty years the Herzog August Bibliothek, with its rich 
historic book and manuscript holdings, has developed into an independent 
research institute combining the traditional role of a library with that 
of a humanities research centre concentrating on European cultural 
history of the early modern period.  The Library takes its name from Duke 
August the Younger (1579-1666), whose collection of 135,000 imprints was 
one of the largest libraries of his day.  It now also houses the 
collections of the Helmstedt University Library as well as all those 
books and manuscripts acquired for the collections since the death of 
Duke August in 1666.  The Herzog August Bibliothek has recently been 
designated the national repository for 17th-century imprints in a scheme 
to establish a decentralized national library of German texts 1450-1912.  
The Library offers a broad range of research facilities within its own 
interdisciplinary fellowship programme, runs summer schools, and 
organizes conferences and workshops.
Eligibility
The Fellowship is intended for younger scholars, who should have 
completed at least two years' research towards a doctorate.  Those 
employed at Professor, Lecturer or equivalent in a university of learned 
institution may normally hold an award only if they are taking unpaid 
leave for the whole of the period.  The Fellowship may not be held 
concurrently with any othe Fellowship or award.  Applicants must normally 
have been under 35 years of age on 1 October 1996.
Duration and Value
The Fellowship lasts four months, two of which must be spent in each 
institution.  The total stipend, which may be applied to travel expenses 
as well as living and other incidental expenses, will be 5,100 pounds 
(approx. DM 12,000).  Applicants domiciled in the UK will be liable for 
National Insurance costs on the English portion of the award.  No 
additional funds are available.
Tenure
The Fellowship may be held for any four consecutive months during the 
year beginning 6 October 1997.  Fellows must spend at least 6 weeks of 
their two months in London during University term-time; term dates for 
1996-97 will be 6 October-12 December 1997; 12 January-20 March and 20 
April-26 June 1998.
Selection
Candidates will be selected jointly by the two institutions and the Bank; 
the decision of the selection committee will be final.  The successful 
candidate will be notified in March 1997, and all other candidates will 
be informed of the outcome of the applications.
General
At the Warburg Institute, the Fellow will be expected to be in London for 
the full duration of th award, and to participate in the life of the 
Institute by presenting his or her research in a seminar, and by advising 
the Library and Photographic Collection.  At th Herzog August Bibliothek 
the Fellow will be expected to be in residence at the Library for the 
full duration of the award, and to present an informal paper on his or 
her research at one of the Fellows' meetings.  The Fellow may not teach 
elsewhere during the tenure of the award, unless with the express 
permission of the Director of the relevant institution, and will be 
required to submit a brief written report to both institutions at the 
conclusion of the Fellowship.  The Fellowship may be terminated if the 
Directors are not satisfied that the conditions of the award are being 
met.  All publications containing results of work done with the aid of 
the Fellowship shall include adequate acknowledgment of the fact.
Applications
Applications should be made in the form of a letter in English or German, 
one copy of which should be sent ot the Director of the Warburg 
Institute, and one to the Director, Herzog August Bibliothek, Postfach 
1364, 38299 Wolfenbuttel.  The letter should give the following information:
1.   A curriculum vitae giving full details of name, date of birth, 
     address and present occupation, school and university education,  
     degrees, teaching and research experience and publications.
2.   An outline of the proposed research.
3.   Particulars of any grants or awards received in support of the same 
     subject.
4.   The names and adresses of two or three persons who have agreed to 
     write, without further invitation, in support of th application.  These 
     letters of reference should be sent ot the Director of the Warburg 
     Institute by 6 January 1997.  It is the responsibility of the 
     candidates to ask their referees to write by this date.
5.   Copies of published work should if possible be submitted.  
Candidates should indicate whether the wishe these publications to be 
returned, or whether they may be given to the Library of either institution.
Closing date:  applications must arrive at both institutions no later 
than 6 December 1996.
NO applications will be accepted by e-mail.  The postal addresses are:
The Warburg Institute, Woburn Square, London WC1H 0AB, United Kingdom
Herzog August Bibliothek, Postfach 13 64, 38299 Wolfenbuttel, Deutschland
