From joe at sfbooks.com  Thu Nov 28 09:09:22 1996
From: joe at sfbooks.com (joe at sfbooks.com)
Date: Thu, 28 Nov 96 03:09:22 -0600
Subject: 2nd RFD: soc.history.ancient
Message-ID: <161227027101.23782.6850692032985380303.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

                     REQUEST FOR DISCUSSION (RFD)
                unmoderated group soc.history.ancient

CHANGES from previous RFD:

The changes are few and would not ordinarily require a new RFD in their own
right.  However, a combination of the long delay since the 1st RFD, and
difficulties in fulfilling that RFD's commitments, have led to the decision
to issue this 2nd RFD.

Material changes are as follows:

The charter's language has been clarified, a little with regard to maps and
other graphic images, a little with regard to commercial notices, and
substantially with regard to related newsgroups and the kinds of postings
considered better posted in them.

The rationale has been expanded with clarification of how the proponents see
soc.history.ancient as adding to the existing set of relevant newsgroups,
and with a short summary of why A.D. 700 was chosen as the cutoff date.

Both have been supplemented by the addition of references to a World Wide
Web site where some past posts can be found, as well as an e-mail address
for obtaining them.

The real reasons for this RFD, however, are as follows:

First, we had trouble distributing the first RFD to the mailing lists where
scholarly discussion of ancient history primarily takes place on the nets.
As a result, in many cases, the RFD only arrived on a given mailing list
after discussion in news.groups had entirely died out.  Readers of the
mailing lists were not given the opportunity to participate fully.

Second, in post <4uadnk$oc4 at sloth.swcp.com>, we committed ourselves to a
straw poll on the subject of moderation.  Responses both in news postings
and in e-mail to the lead proponent were to be counted.  Unfortunately, the
lead proponent's computer crashed late in the RFD period, with the result
that e-mail responses were lost.  News responses were roughly evenly split;
it's worth noting, again, that people who saw the RFD on the mailing lists
were unlikely to find out about this straw poll thanks to our lateness in
sending the RFD.

Finally, we eventually overshot the 90-day limit on proposals, so even
without these difficulties, this RFD would now be necessary anyway.

We'll try to do better this time.

Perhaps the most contentious topic during the first discussion period was
moderation.  None of the proponents much wants to propose a moderated group
at this time; representative posts on this subject include
<joe-0108960820480001 at stars.pr.mcs.net>, <4ub51u$diq at pulp.ucs.ualberta.ca>
and  <4u7lvg$di3 at sloth.swcp.com>.  However, if the bulk of opinion in this
new discussion favours moderation, we will try to work something out.
Please see post <joe-0308960913120001 at stars.pr.mcs.net> for some remarks
on how a moderated group might work, if this is important to you.  All of
the posts referenced in this RFD can also be obtained at web site
<URL:http://www.tezcat.com/~josephb/past/sha/> or by e-mail from
<joe at sfbooks.com> or <mmartin at basis.com>.  (The latter are not automatic
servers!)  To cast a vote in favour of or against moderation without
posting publicly, please e-mail <joe at sfbooks.com>.

Newsgroup line:
soc.history.ancient     Ancient history (up to AD 700).

This is a formal Request For Discussion (RFD) for the creation of a
world-wide unmoderated Usenet newsgroup soc.history.ancient.  This is
not a Call for Votes (CFV); you cannot vote at this time.  Procedural
details are below.

RATIONALE: soc.history.ancient

Ancient history already is a topic of much interest on Usenet, where it
is discussed in multiple newsgroups, and many mailing lists are also
devoted to it. However, Usenet discussion is often fragmented, and/or
off-topic in the groups where it occurs. This proposal seeks to create
an intuitively obvious central place for such discussion.

Existing Usenet newsgroups where ancient history is discussed but is off-
topic include sci.archaeology and its offshoots; soc.history.medieval; and
humanities.classics.  Ancient history is at best marginal in sci.archaeology
the extent that it concerns questions subject to archaeological investigation.
Recent threads in these groups which are off-topic of marginally so include
ones about the historicity of Jesus, Josephus' account of Masada, the alleged
salting of Carthage, Roman legions, Roman cities, Celts and Gypsies, and
Celtic knowledge (from the classical period).

In soc.history.medieval, where much discussion occurs, ancient history
is strictly off-topic; the charter defines the group's scope as beginning
at approximately AD 500.  Yet threads with enormous activity concerning
ancient Christianity, Rome, and Celts have been common in the group since
its incepion.

Sci.classics (now becoming humanities.classics) is the most problematic
case.  The newsgroup's traditions specifically include the history of
the Greco-Roman world and neighbouring regions as far as India.  All the
same, sci.classics is not an intuitively obvious place to look for such
topics and in practice sci.classics has been dominated by linguistic/literary
discussions which do not fully address ancient historical interests.  Short
historical questions are usually answered but discussion rarely results.

Soc.history.ancient is likely to be the first place people stop who are
interested in the ancient world.  The group's charter and FAQ will help
to direct them to more appropriate newsgroups where these exist.
Soc.history.ancient should help, for example, improve the visibility of
humanities.classics.

During the first RFD discussion, questions were raised about the choice
