i[...] c[...] (I thought it was banned?...)
By "certain amount" I mean that the language is mastered by other people
than mother tongue speakers at at least an elementary level.
By "transnational" I mean that the language can be used as a means of
communication between speakers of various mother tongues. I should also add
that it would be the language preferred as a second language by a fair
number of people. In this sense, both French, German and English (to mention
a few) have a transnational character, as they are spoken as second
languages by many people in certain areas (the French in the Francophone
world, German in Eastern Europe, English in the global context etc.). 
This would be parallell to e.g. Spanish, which is spoken in a number of
countries, but normally not chosen as a means of communication between, say,
a German and a Greek. 
In our context, the word is relevant in so far as India has a number of
states made on the basis of linguistic criteria. But I would agree that the
word transnational is not entirely apt in this context, since India is the
"nation" and the states do not constitute "nations" in the common sense of
the word (although they may have their own subnationalisms). The bottom line
is, however, the following: If several speakers of different Indic
languages, none of whom have Hindi as a mother tongue, and given that none
of them speak English, are having a chat, which language would they prefer
to use as a means of communication? In principle any Indic language can be
used, but I would guess that the one most frequently popping up would be Hindi. 
 (I suppose some will dismiss this as again so much "hearsay" or mere
I have made no assumptions as to how you get hold of your information, and
therefore do not dismiss your points of view on such assumptions.
I have spent considerable time in Rome, and I can confirm that you are
better off with Italian, but by and large, English will do the job as long
as you stick to simple language. Most people who deal with foreigners know a
smattering of English. 
It seems to me that we are entering a kind of discussion where we quarrel
about the cultural merit of various Indian regions. Everybody "knows" that
Bengali literature is "vastly superior" to Hindi literature, just as
classical philologists will tell you that Greek literature is *much* more
wonderful than Latin. I think this sort of discussion is quite fruitless.
There may be a number of reasons for studying Indic languages - and I would
certainly not discourage anyone from studying Tamil or Bengali - but I see
no fault in being pragmatic and having a look at the mathematics involved.
Hindi (and Urdu) are the languages spoken by most Indians and Pakistanis,
and they also will get you far in Indian diaspora circles in the West. In my
opinion, this makes them the top priority languages, regardless of the
quality of Hindi or Urdu culture. Languages are not simply carriers of
cultural values, they are also means of communication. 
Doesn't this strike you as a bit arrogant? I can't see that the quality of
communication improves if you speak broken Kannada instead of broken Hindi.
Like most linguists, I have my personal preferences when it comes to the
qualities of various languages and cultures, but I am careful not to
discriminate openly between languages and cultures. There is always more
than a touch of subjective feelings involved, and others may feel differently.
. All this
Isn't this a rather emotional argument? Quantitative arguments are
important, given the fact that academic studies have to be funded. The
"weaker" languages may then survive under the protective cover of the
"strong" languages in the academic funding fray. Since this has already been
discussed by somebody else, I'll say no more.
Best regards,
Lars Martin Fosse
