Date of the Veda
 Purushottama, Thank you for your response.
Yes, the first part of Tilak's book, at least sections of it, do make
rivetting reading.  He and Jacobi, both within two weeks of each other
and originally oblivious of each others work, submitted their results to 
Buhler for consideration.  Buhler fully supported their views (that the
Rig veda contains astronomical clues that would date the text far
earlier than had been accepted by most Indologists), and added numerous
more references in support of them.  Their views were
opposed by Whitney, Thibaut and Oldenberg.  However, Jacobi and Tilak (I
don't know about Buhler) never retracted or modified their position.
Whitney and Thibaut did not disprove their claims, but did show that
alternative explanations were possible for the references that Jacobi and
Tilak (J & T) had brought forward, so that such claims could not be used
as proof of the antiquity of the Veda. 
	Although the debate, almost exactly a century ago now, has never
resurfaced in mainstream Western academic circles, Indian astronomers, 
in general, have never accepted that Whitney and Thibaut (W & T) had
finalised the matter.  It boils down to what assumptions one chooses to
make.  W & T's assumption is that there is no evidence that the
Indo-Aryans had the
same nakshatra system earlier, as it had by the time of the Vedanga
jyotisha (even though several nakshatras are mentioned in the Rig).  They
also claimed that there is no explicit reference to the solstice or
equinox in the Rig.  Their assumption, in short, is that non-mention of
such skills equals non-familiarity with them.
	T & J, Buhler, and most astronomers I am familiar with in
India, do not share this assumption.  For them non-mention of such things
is not tantamount to ignorance of them, and the references themselves
suggest familiarity with elementary, basic astronomical abilities, which
would be very essential for any pre-technological society.
Any comments anybody?   Edwin Bryant,   Columbia University
On Wed, 13 Nov 1996,
purushottama bilimoria wrote:
