Hindi-Urdu Position
POSITION AVAILABLE IN HINDI-URDU LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY.
 The Department of South and Southeast Studies invites applications for a
full-time, tenure or tenure-track position in Hindi-Urdu Language and
Literature to begin with Academic Year 1997-98. The rank of the appointment
is open and will depend on the qualifications of the successful applicant.
Applicants must possess the Ph.D. in Hindi and/or Urdu Language and
Literature or a closely related field and native or near-native proficiency
in the spoken and written forms of these languages. Significant academic
training in Sanskrit and/or Persian will be a distinct advantage. Knowledge
of an additional modern Indian language is desirable. Research
specialization with an emphasis on modern or contemporary Hindi or Urdu
literature is desirable but applicants with  specialization in earlier
periods will also be considered. In either case it is expected that the
successful applicant will be able to demonstrate scholarly familiarity with
older as well as more modern forms of the language. Applicants should
demonstrate significant engagement with the theoretical and methodological
concerns of contemporary literary, social, historical and cultural
scholarship on South Asia and should be aware of contemporary developments
in language pedagogy. Teaching responsibilities will include advanced
courses in Hindi and/or Urdu language, upper division and graduate lectures
and seminars in Hindi and Urdu literature as well as undergraduate and
graduate courses on the cultures, religions, literatures and civilizations
of traditional and contemporary South Asia.
Applicants' letters should describe their current and projected research
and teaching interests and should be accompanied by copies of relevant
publications, the names and addresses of three referees, and, if possible,
evaluations of teaching.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1997
Direct applications and inquiries to:
The Chair,
Hindi-Urdu Search Committee
Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies
University of California at Berkeley
Berkeley, CA 94720-2540
The University of California is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action
Employer.
Sally J. Sutherland Goldman
Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies
University of California at Berkeley
Berkeley, CA 94720-2540
ssa at violet.berkeley.edu
Phone:(510) 642-2409
Fax:   (510) 642-3582
