From apandey at u.washington.edu  Mon Dec 16 12:29:24 1996
From: apandey at u.washington.edu (Anshuman Pandey)
Date: Mon, 16 Dec 96 04:29:24 -0800
Subject: Chinese/Indian 'pseudo-archaeological' find.
Message-ID: <161227027609.23782.4621310887454673328.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>


Hello all -

The following is a message that I had saved about two years ago from
the sci.archaeology newsgroup regarding the discovery of a hieroglyphic
disc in the mountains of Thibet.

I am not sure if INDOLOGY is a proper forum to send this to, but for lack 
of other fora, I'll go ahead! I am interested to see if anyone knows, or
has heard, of this hieroglyphic disc and the findings about it which were
later published by a Chinese scientist involved in the project.

My interest is purely an inquisitive one, and not one that should
undermine my credibility, however small! :-P

Forwarded message follows.

Regards,
Anshuman Pandey
----------------------------------------------------------------------

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Sun, 22 Oct 1995 10:12:50 GMT
From: Doug Weller <dweller at ramtops.demon.co.uk>
Newsgroups: sci.archaeology
Subject: Faq needed on Chinese/Indian 'pseudo-archaeology'

We occasionally run into stuff here and on other newsgroups about amazing
finds in the Indus valley, Indian spaceships (Viyamas), radioactive
skeletons found in the streets of Mohenjo-Daro holding hands, vitrified
cities, etc. I've heard several times about finds by Chinese
archaeologists relating to ancient spaceships also, eg a recent one
(clipped heavily):

High in the mountains of BayanKara-Ula, on the borders of China 
and Tibet - a team of archaeologists were conducting a very 
detailed routine survey of a series of interlinked caves.

Their interests had been excited by the discovery of lines of 
neatly arranged graves which contained the skeletons of what 
must have been a strange race of human beings; strange because 
they had unnaturally spindly bodies and large, overdeveloped 
heads.

At first, it had been thought that the caves had been the home 
of a hitherto unknown species of ape. But as the leader of the 
team - the Chinese archeologist, Professor Chi Pu Tei - pointed 
out, "Who ever heard of apes burying each other?" 

On the walls of the caves themselves archaeologists had 
uncovered crude pictures of the rising Sun, the Moon, 
unidentifiable stars and the Earth...all joined together by 
lines of pea-sized dots. Along with the discs, the cave drawings 
had been dated around 12,000 years old.

It was while studying the skeletons that one of the team 
stumbled on a large, round stone disk, half buried in the dust 
on the floor of the cave.

The team gathered round the discovery, turning it this way and 
that.It looked, absurdly, like a kind of 'Stone Age Gramophone 
record'. There was a hole in the centre and a fine, spiral 
groove radiated to the rim.

Closer inspection, however, showed that the groove was, in fact, 
a continuous spiralling line of closely written characters...

Many experts tried to translate the hieroglyphics in the 20 
years the disc languished in Peking. They all failed. It was not 
until another professor Dr. Tsum Um Nui broke the code and 
started to decipher the 'speaking grooves' that the 
extraordinary implications of the disc were realized.

Realized, that is, only by only a select few. The outside world 
remained in ignorance. For the professor's conclusions on the 
meaning of the disc were so shattering that they were officially 
suppressed. The Peking Academy of Pre-History forbade him to 
publish his findings.

Two years later, in 1965, the professor and four of his 
colleagues were finally given permission to reveal their theory. 
It appeared under the longwinded but intriguing title, "The 
Grooved Script concerning Space-ships which, as recorded on the 
Discs, landed on Earth 12,000 years ago".

The 'records' - 716 of the grooved discs were later uncovered in 
the same caves - told an astonishing story of a 'space probe' by

[missing text]

sent to Moscow for examination.

They were scraped free of rock particles which had stuck to them 
and then put through chemical analysis. To the surprise of the 
scientists, they we found to contain large amounts of cobalt and 
other metallic substances.

That was not all. When placed on a special turntable - according 
to Dr.Vyatcheslav Saizev, who described the experiments in the 
Soviet magazine Sputnik - they vibrated or 'hummed' in an 
unusual rhythm as though an electric charge was passing through 
them. Or as one scientist suggested, "as if they formed some 
part of an electrical circuit." At some time, they had clearly 
been exposed to extraordinarily high voltages.

(I've also fantastic stories about Russian finds also).

Although these aren't as common as some of the other nonsense,
if there's anyone out there who knows anything at all about these
and can help write a faq or even just some pointers, that would
be useful.

-- 
Doug Weller








