definition of sAmAnAdhikara.nya
On Thu, 5 Dec 1996, John Dunne wrote:
[...]
Not always. The same Vaacaspati, in his Bhaamatii, uses
saamaanaadhikara.nya in a very different way, to come to advaita
conclusions. tat and tvam in tattvamasi refer to the same entity, i.e.
brahman, although usually conceived of as limited by different adjuncts.
Here, Vaacaspati has given up the contention that it is a bhrama to insist
on aikaatmya. 
To clarify, within each work of his, Vaacaspati is faithful to the school
he is expounding, so it is not as if Vaacaspati is himself committed to a
realist ontology. Rather, nyaaya is committed to a realist ontology, and
Vaacaspati is being faithful to nyaaya in the taatparya-.tiikaa. 
Note however, that even Raamaanuja accepts that tat and tvam refer to the
same entity in tattvamasi, although he explains it in terms of a
'sariira-'saariirin analogy, instead of the limiting adjuncts of Advaita
Vedaanta. 
It seems to me that saamaanaadhikara.nya is used in many different ways
depending upon context, and depending upon the intention of the author. I
do not think that the majority of Indian philosophers used it in only in
one particular way. For example, even advaitins, e.g. Sure'svara, notice
that normally saamaanaadhikara.nya requires a sambandha (e.g. of
vi'seshana and vi'seshya) between the two terms (as in 'sukladadhi), but
reject this requirement in favor of a jahadajahallaksha.na which is
possible on a different application of saamaanaadhikara.nya, on the
grounds that no such sambandha can be postulated between tat and tvam.
Specifically, this interpretation requires a real identity of the two
vaacyas, which is the only relation between "tat" and "tvam", at least in
Advaita Vedaanta. 
"Co-instantiation" seems to require that the two entities that are
instantiated in the same locus are necessarily different. The question 
also arises whether the two entities being instantiated are the same as or 
different from this locus, and so on. This would clearly be misleading in
a discussion of Advaita Vedaanta, which certainly accounts for a great 
number of Indian philosophers, probably more than most other schools. To
me, it seems that saamaanaadhikara.nya plays the role of co-instantiation
in some contexts and co-referentiality in others. 
How about coordinate predication? I have seen this used in translations of
both Advaita and Vi'sish.taadvaita works by Indian authors.
S. Vidyasankar
