pretty big. From a small country like Norway, about 300,000 people left for
the US in the period 1840 - 1930. The migration was, under all
circumstances, big enough to make life quite miserable for the Indians, and
for the Europeans to establish political control of the area.
It took 600 years for the Germanic tribes to get to Africa simply because
the Roman Empire stood in their way and kept them back. 
 Now what is the
As far as I remember, the chariots were only actually driven in war
situations. Otherwise, they were normally disassembled and carried on
ordinary carts. As for an exact chronology - well, nobody can give an exact
chronology, but judging by the data from the Middle East, we may assume that
they entered Northern India sometime during the second millenium B.C. Again,
Mallory will give you the available details. 
As it happens, we have documentation (Caesar) showing that as much as
368,000 people could join a trek. Caesar says: "In the Helvetian camp [after
the battle between them and the Romans] documents were found written with
Greek letters, where the number of those who had left home was given on a
name by name basis, those who could carry arms, and also separately boys,
old men and women. The total of all these were 263,000 Helvetians, 36,000
Tulingi, 14,000 Latovici, 23,000 Raurici, 32,000 Boii. Those of these who
could carry arms amounted to 92,000." (De bello gallico, I,29). I don't
think we should underestimate the ability of people in ancient times to move
in great numbers. But normally, we don't have to look for numbers as
dramatic as this. Often intruders establish themselves as a warrior
aristocracy and are gradually "digested" by the locals. (As an example may
serve the Mongols in China). It suffices if they have the military strength
to supplant the old overlords. But then again, they don't leave many traces
of their language. 
As for the question of archaeology vs. language, the linguistic data are in
themselves sufficient to establish the theory. Archaeological data may
support the theory, but as long as you don't have ancient documents or
inscriptions saying "we are Indo-Europeans" or "We are not Indo-Europeans"
(or some statement that amounts to the same), we should not put too much
weight on archaeological data. Even in Europe it is difficult to determine
correspondences between archaeological data and ethnic data. As soon as we
have words, like the Indo-Aryan gods of Mitanni mentioned in a cuneiform
treaty, we are on much safer ground. 
Best regards,
Lars Martin
