"Out of India"
At 10:23 PM 12/04/1996 GMT, Vidyanath Rao wrote:
How many pairs of observations did you have for the analysis? If it
was less than 30 (the central limit theorem threshold) underlying
assumptions about normality may not hold (for the statistically 
challenged - you're saying that the observations are centered about 
the actual value and the likelihood of being farther away from the 
actual value is low as in a bell-shaped curve). Even if there are 30
or more observations, I thought there were traditionally 10 books
in the Rg Veda which means leaving out book 1, you have more than 9
observations arising from a set of nine books - what is the theoretical
reasoning here? Wouldn't a Kolmogorov-Smirnov test be better (it's 
non-parametric which means it doesn't make assumptions like the 
bell curve above) if the hypothesis is to test differences between
the two sets of rankings?
I haven't a clue what anustubh, jagati is and my recollection of vipula
is minimal. However, what is the theory that suggests that you 
should be examining these specific entities? Why these specific works and
those specific parvans? Wouldn't it make more sense to do this across
all parvans of the Mahabharata to test opinions about interpolations?
I'm reminded of the gospel that I drill into my students on the first 
day of my information & analysis class: just because there's a 
large positive correlation between cranes flying over Sweden and
the number of babies born in Sweden over a period of years, you
shouldn't assume that there's an association between the two events.
The issue of controls is something to be considered later.
Sample size must be higher. 
It's a question of theoretical assumptions and what methodological
assumptions you're willing to live with. Generally, there are 2 types
of CA: (1) single pass - the analysis goes through the data once 
in building the trees. The problem is, if there's an early 
mis-classification there's no chance to correct it. (2) Multiple
pass - start at random and repeat the process. Takes more time,
needs higher sample sizes.
Well, in dealing with business data, small samples do result in different
solutions esp. single vs multiple pass. Since these are exploratory 
techniques, if possible you should validate the existence of these
clusters with data that has been held out from the analysis. Most of
these ideas are pretty elementary stuff for mathematicians and 
statisticians, but they need to be said:-)
Kishore
Kishore Krshna
kishore at mail.utexas.edu
