file corruption and 7 bit
On Tue, 17 Dec 1996, Claude Setzer wrote:
This discussion is getting pretty technical, but don't know where people 
are going with this.  What follows are technical details and not 
Indology.  So feel free to skip this message.
Anything (including binary) can be transferred over the internet without 
any problems.  Basically, what is needed is an e-mail program which is not 
brain-dead at the sending/receiving end.  Pegasus Mail (a free windows 
program is good).  PINE also does a pretty good job.  Even the old 
standby Eudora Light (which is free I believe) will do a credible job.
Lot of mailing lists do not allow attachments.  If the current list 
server can handle MIME complaint e-mails, nothing special needs to be 
done.
The 7 bits has to do more with the communication links than the computer 
proper.  Computer is always 8 bits or 16 bits etc. 
Try to get the programs mentioned above, or even Netscape.
UUencode/MIME etc are not Microsoft labels.  UUencode has been with with 
Unix, as far as I can remember (latest version on my machine is dated 
1987).  MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) originally started 
with Bellcore I believe in 1991.  As a general note, mail systems should 
not be asking people to choose encoding systems but act transparently.
If somebody really wants to get into doing something exotic with mail 
system, they should read RFC822 for basic e-mail and RFC2045, RCF2046, 
RFC2047, RFC2048 and RFC2049 for MIME.
The best bet to finding working software on Internet - whether mail or 
for other purposes - is to check whether the software is RFC complaint.  
If the vendor says, they use "proprietary"  software which is "better" 
than the standard or some other line like that, say a polite "Thanks, but 
No-Thanks" and don't touch it with a ten foot pole.  Of course, if you 
decide to use it inspite of the warning. learn to live with the 
consequences. 
Das
Interested in Vegetarianism?             Vegetarian Restaurant Trek
Web    http://www.VegInfo.com                712 Bancroft Road #320
e-mail info at VegInfo.com (subject Help)       Walnut Creek, CA 94598
Interactive Voice/fax Response  (510) 256-8420                  USA
