From palaniappa at AOL.COM  Sun Apr 18 02:45:47 2010
From: palaniappa at AOL.COM (Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan)
Date: Sat, 17 Apr 10 21:45:47 -0500
Subject: A note on Poets in the Akananuru
In-Reply-To: <9DF8CB37-274A-4D08-BA7F-108E4CC48F29@berkeley.edu>
Message-ID: <161227089297.23782.17430066568527201654.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear George,

Checking my earlier post on the web, I see that some lines of the poem have mysteriously disappeared. So I am resending the post with some additional information.

In fact, I think the very presence of Kapilar as a family friend suggests that the attribution could be true indeed. U. V?. C?min?taiyar describes the poetic abilities of his teacher M????cicuntaram Pi??ai (1815-1876) at about the same age. So, if the girls had studied Tamil with Kapilar, the two girls could have been excellent poets in their own right. I do not think it would be anything unusual for them to compose such a poem. Moreover, the very structure of the poem suggests that authorship by two persons is very possible as seen below

a??ait ti?ka? avve? nilavi?
entaiyum u?aiy?m em ku??um pi?ar ko??r 

i??ait ti?ka? ivve? nilavi?
ve??e?i muraci? v?ntar em
ku??um ko?t?r y?m entaiyum ilam?

The first two lines could have been uttered by one daughter and the other three lines by another daughter. This pattern of two-person song-making/word play is common in folk songs and this has been depicted in the Tamil epic poetry of the Cilappatik?ram (Ku??akkuravai 12-14), in Bhakti poetry like the Tiruv?cakam (Tirucc??al), and in modern film songs. Although Ku??akkuravai and Tirucc??al are considered to be imitative of originals prevalent in the folk culture, the poem by P?ri's daughters could be an original. The only difference between Pu?am 112 and the later examples in the Cilappatik?ram and the Tiruv?cakam seems to be that the lines in the poem by Pari's daughters do not seem to be addressed to each other but to a third person (Kapilar?).

So, I do not think there is any reason to doubt the traditional attribution of the poem to P?ri Maka?ir.

Talking of Ku??akkuravai 12-14, they also indicate that the source of the genre of ant?di could be in the folk culture and be very old.  

Regards,
Palaniappan



On Apr 17, 2010, at 4:45 PM, George Hart wrote:

> Dear Palaniappan,
> 
> Just what seems likely, I suppose.  Everyone may not know the story.  The great poet Kapilar was patronized by P?ri, who ruled over a small mountain called Pa?ampu.  P?ri was (and still is) renowned for his generosity, and as a result the three great kings, Chera Chola and Pandya, became jealous, joined together, and laid siege to Pa?ampu.  In the end, they could not take it by force, but were able to do so by treachery.  P?ri was killed, and Kapilar (a Brahmin) was spared.  Kapilar took P?ri's daughters to many kings and attempted to get them married but was unsuccessful.  In the end, he is supposed to have married them to other Brahmins.  The poems Kapilar wrote about this are some of the most beautiful in any literature.  There is one poem attributed to P?ri's daughters:
> 
> On that day, under the white light of that moon,
> we had our father and no enemies had taken the hill.
> On this day, under the white light of this moon, the kings,
> royal drums beating out the victory,
> have taken the hill.  And we! we have no father.
> 
> The power of these lines has echoed through almost 2000 years of Tamil history.  It seems to me unlikely that two young (12?) girls could compose such a master poem, especially when Kapilar, whom we know was a great poet, was with them and experienced what they did.  Of course, there is no way of being 100% certain that the girls did not have a part in the poem -- it is not unlikely they said something and Kapilar put it into poetry.  George
> 




