[INDOLOGY] Prof. Vasantkumar Bhatt's new Sanskrit drama Dharma
 Chakra Pravartanam
Prof. Vasantkumar Bhatt sent the following message :
Respected Scholars,
Namaste  !
Today my Sanskrit drama on Lord Buddha's life  -????????-??????????  -is
published by the Central Sanskrit University,  Delhi.
Perhaps it is the first Sanskrit drama, which is thoroughly based on
Tripitakas and Jataka-kathas.
( in 5 acts, with Shanta as main Rasa and Haasya, Adbhut as supporting
Rasas. ), + one can find all five "???????????, ???? ??????, ???? ?????? -
as suggested  by Bharat Muni. )
Regards,
Vasantkumar M Bhatt
Ahmedabad
earlier he brought out
Abijnaanashaakuntala naatakasya pancharangaavrittayaH
His older message was
Respected Scholars,
Namaste  !
I am glad to announce the new publication of my book:- ????????????????
??????? ???????????????? ?? The book contains 42 Acts of the drama ! It is
published by the Central Sanskrit University, Delhi, in August, 2020.
(1) One may find here the basic (=Act 1 to 7 ) texts of all five ( the
Kashmiri, Maithili,  Bengali, Dakshinatya and Devnagari ) recensions of the
drama.
(2) For the first time I have ventured to give a reconstructed text of the
full drama, ( with required arguments in Sanskrit , in footnotes ) which is
prepared after thorough investigation of all available variants,
interpolations & abridgement in traditional manuscripts.
(3) One can find a detailed comparative study of the texts of all five
recensions of the drama.
(4) After examining / locating the real cause of creating voluminous
variants & interpolations, I have concluded that all five ( so-called)
recensions are nothing but " Stage Versions of the Drama " ! So the title
of the book is  - ????????????????  ??
(5) At the end of the volume,  there are various (six) appendices of unique
importance.
Hope that the scholarly world will give the critical comments on the same
after the reading.
Regards,
Vasantkumar M Bhatt
Ahmedabad
Email is-  v.k.bhatt53 at gmail
WhatsApp number is 9427700064.
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Senior Director, IndicA
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS Kavikulaguru Kalidasa Sanskrit University, Ramtek, Maharashtra
BoS Veda Vijnana Gurukula, Bengaluru.
Member, Advisory Council, Veda Vijnana Shodha Samsthanam, Bengaluru
BoS Rashtram School of Public Leadership
Editor-in-Chief, International Journal of Studies in Public Leadership
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies,
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
