[INDOLOGY] Texts about translators and translation?
Dear Nataliya and those, who follow this thread,
remembered yesterday that, long ago by now (?90ies of the last century),
in the context of frequent talks with a friend, a serious Zen practitioner,
I wrote a short piece (for private use) that, retrospectively seen, also
elucidates
variations (internal, intersubjective, traditional, trans- and
cross-cultural),
levels and other aporetic aspects (the implicit, the unsaid, the suggestive
[*dhvani*
? la Abhinavagupta], the ironic) that may be associated with the inherently
complex nature of translation and the tasks of transport it is expected at
best
to achieve. Though due to the original context of its production, it is
only
indirectly related to the cultural sphere of Sanskrit, it is qua allusions
nevertheless concerned with ?the middle?, Madhyamaka, and with what
N?g?rjuna called *prapa?copa?ama* (?the coming to rest of
lifeworld-proliferations?),
a notion subsequently taken over by Gau?ap?da (cf.  Bhattacharya?s & Bouy?s
comments on GK II.35). And there are other ones. If not all of these
allusions may
with equal ease be *translated* into adequate understanding by the
individual
reader?s self-referentially narrative capacities executing hermeneutical
processes,
no problem: this might then be taken as a direct, empirically reproduced,
verification
of Dominic?s assertion (as referred to) about the translator?s
?presuppositions?.
Initially hesitant to send ?Half a Cloud? to the list, yet as it does in a
less than
dead serious manner (in this respect complying with Nataliya?s request)
illuminate general aporias *all* Indologists and Buddhologists are
confronted with,
if the most significant classical Indian hermeneutical perspectives related
to
first person perspective dimensions have to be translated into cultural
spheres
dominated by third person perspective paradigms ? and probably more or less
sparked by Dominic?s remarks on translation ?, it?s now being sent.
Best wishes for a productive weekend, Hartmut
On Fri, Jan 10, 2020 at 8:30 AM Nataliya Yanchevskaya via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
