[INDOLOGY] Tamil Studies position at Stony Brook
Dear colleagues,
I wanted to inform you about this open rank search for an endowed
professorship at my university, the State University of New York at Stony
Brook.
Inquiries about the position should be sent not to me, but to the search
committee chair (CAS_tamilsearch at stonybrook.edu).
With best wishes,
Andrew
link for below: https://apply.interfolio.com/71724
Assistant, Associate or Full Professor - Anandavalli and Dr. G. Swaminathan
Endowed Research Professorship in Tamil Description
Stony Brook University invites applications for the Anandavalli and Dr. G.
Swaminathan Endowed Research Professorship in Tamil, a full-time tenured or
tenure-track faculty position at the level of Assistant, Associate, or Full
Professor (open rank) to commence in Fall 2020. The successful candidate?s
primary appointment will be in one of the following departments: Art,
History, Linguistics, or Music, with possible secondary or affiliate
appointments in other departments as appropriate. Candidates must have
demonstrated excellence in innovative research and potential to participate
in the teaching mission of the Department they join. The successful
candidate will be expected to be an effective interdisciplinary teacher and
mentor at the undergraduate and graduate levels, supervise PhD students in
research and professional development, and be an active participant in
community outreach activities. Applications are encouraged from Tamil
Studies scholars in any relevant area of the Humanities, Arts, or Social
Sciences. The Endowment will provide funds for salary, research,
conferences, colloquia, and other scholarly activities.
Please contact *CAS_tamilsearch at stonybrook.edu
<CAS_tamilsearch at stonybrook.edu> *with any questions you may have.
Salary: Dependent upon Qualifications
Qualifications
*Required: *PhD from an accredited institution prior to start date with
specialization in one of the possible appointing departments or related
field. Native or near-native fluency in written and spoken Tamil. A record
of research related to Tamil studies in one of the possible appointing
departments or related field
*Preferred: *A distinguished national/international reputation or potential
for sustained scholarly accomplishments. Evidence of or potential for
excellence in research and service; undergraduate and graduate teaching;
interdisciplinary collaboration; and community outreach.
Application Instructions
A complete application will consist of five items, including the required
Application form: 1) a cover letter that addresses the criteria for the
position, 2) CV, 3) sample of representative scholarly work, 4) names and
contact information for three references.
Review of applicant files will begin on February 17, 2020 and will continue
until the position is filled. Inquiries may be directed to the College of
Arts and Sciences, Office of the Dean, Chair of the Swaminathan Search
Committee. (631) 632-6999.
Stony Brook University, one of four research-intensive campuses within the
State University of New York (SUNY) system, is widely regarded as its
flagship. The University embraces its mission to provide comprehensive
undergraduate, graduate and professional education of the highest quality,
and its rankings bear that out. It?s included among the top 1% of
universities in the world by the 2018 QS World University Rankings and
among the top 40 public universities by U.S.News & World Report?s 2020 Best
Colleges rankings. It is a member of the prestigious Association of
American Universities, composed of the top 62 research institutions in
North America. As Long Island?s largest single-site employer, Stony Brook
has nearly 15,000 full- and part-time employees, including more than 2,700
faculty. It enrolled roughly 26,800 students in fall 2019 ? 17,900
undergraduate students and 8,900 graduate students ? and offers more than
200 majors, minors and combined-degree programs. The Department of
Athletics supports 18 Division I varsity intercollegiate athletic programs
that compete at the highest level within the NCAA. Located approximately 60
miles east of Manhattan on Long Island?s beautiful North Shore, Stony Brook
is situated on 1,454 wooded acres, encompassing 13 schools and colleges; a
Research and Development Park; world-class athletics facilities, including
an 8,300-seat stadium and a 4,000-seat arena; and Stony Brook Medicine,
Long Island?s premier academic medical center. Also part of the University
is a teaching and research campus in Southampton, New York, which offers
graduate arts programs and is the site of the Marine Sciences Center. In
addition, Stony Brook has a role in running, and performs joint research
with, Brookhaven National Laboratory, the only Department of Energy
Laboratory in the Northeast. Home to the Emerson String Quartet, the
Pollock-Krasner House in East Hampton, NY, and the Humanities Institute,
with endeavors that extend to the Turkana Basin Institute in Kenya and the
Ranomafana National Park in Madagascar, Stony Brook sustains an
international reputation that cuts across the arts, humanities, social
sciences and natural sciences.
As part of a great research university, the College of Arts and Sciences at
Stony Brook University incubates creative work and scholarship in
fundamental disciplines,connecting with medicine, technology, public
policy, culture, education, the arts,business and environment. As the
liberal arts college for the campus, we help students and faculty explore
diverse possibilities that exceed their initial expectations and prepare
for a lifetime of learning and discovery. http://www.stonybrook.edu/cas/
*The selected candidate must successfully clear a background investigation.*
*In accordance with the Title II Crime Awareness and Security Act, a copy
of our crime statistics is available upon request by calling (631) 632-
6350. It can also be viewed online at the University Police website at**
http://www.stonybrook.edu/police <http://www.stonybrook.edu/police>.*
*Equal Employment Opportunity Statement*
Stony Brook University is committed to excellence in diversity and the
creation of an inclusive learning, and working environment. All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to
race, color, national origin, religion, sex, pregnancy, familial status,
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age, disability, genetic
information, veteran status and all other protected classes under federal
or state laws.
If you need a disability-related accommodation, please call the university
office of institutional diversity and equity at (631)632-6280.
Andrew J. Nicholson, Ph.D.
Associate Professor
Asian & Asian American Studies
Stony Brook University
Stony Brook, NY 11794-5343  USA
(631) 632-4030
http://philosophicalrasika.com/
