[INDOLOGY] Texts about translators and translation?
In addition to the articles already mentioned, the following recent (except
for one) essays and books all contain useful analyses on how translation
was conceptualized both to and from Sanskrit ? although not in
free-standing texts.
Cort, John E., ?Making It Vernacular in Agra: The Practice of Translation
by Seventeenth-Century Jains?, in *Tellings and Texts*, ed. by Francesca
Orsini and Katherine Butler Schofield, Music, Literature and Performance in
North India, 1st edn. (Open Book Publishers, 2015), pp. 61?106
Fisher, Elaine. ?Multiregional and Multi-Linguistic V?ra?aivism: Change and
Continuity in an Early Devotional Tradition.? In *Modern Hinduism in Text
and Context*, edited by Lavanya Vemsani, 9?22. London, UK: Bloomsbury
Academic, 2018.
Obrock, Luther. ?Muslim Mah?k?vyas: Sanskrit and Translation in the
Sultanates.? In *Text and Tradition in Early Modern North India*, edited by
Tyler Williams, Anshu Malhotra, and John Stratton Hawley, 58?76. New Delhi:
Oxford University Press, 2018.
Patel, Deven M., ?Source, Exegesis, and Translation: Sanskrit Commentary
and Regional Language Translation in South Asia?, *Journal of the American
Oriental Society*, 131 (2011), 245?66
Pingree, David, ?Islamic Astronomy in Sanskrit?, *Journal for the History
of Arabic Science*, 2 (1978), 315?30
Truschke, Audrey. *Culture of Encounters: Sanskrit at the Mughal Court*.
South Asia across the Disciplines. New York: Columbia University Press,
2016.
Williams, Tyler, ?Commentary as Translation: The Vair?gya V?nd of
Bhagvandas Niranjani?, in *Text and Tradition in Early Modern North India*,
ed. by Tyler Walker Williams, Anshu Malhotra, and John Stratton Hawley,
2018, pp. 99?125
All the best,
Eric
On Sat, Jan 4, 2020 at 2:13 PM Valerie Roebuck via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Eric Gurevitch
PhD Candidate, South Asian Languages and Civilizations and
Committee on Conceptual and Historical Studies of Science
University of Chicago
gurevitch at uchicago.edu
