=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_Vajras=C5=ABc=C4=AB?=
Dear Vincent,
Thank you for your further comments.
I didn?t mean to suggest that the yukta pram??a described in the Caraka Sa?hit? was the same as the dharm?rthayukta? vacana? pram??am of the Vajras?c?. Only that a pram??a explicitly based on yukta (however one parses that phrase) is something seen early on, and then it disappears. The yukta-pram??a of the Caraka is a fascinating thing whose loss probably was a loss for the entire Indian philosophical enterprise. Farmers and doctors shared a common concern, which is that to get from initial cause to actual fruition involves a process in time of multiple causes, with multiple stages, any of which can effect or nullify the outcome: planting a crop and being able to harvest; pregnancy making it to term; etc. Taking all relevant factors into account and calculating the probabilities of a successful final outcome was what yukta pram??a was designed to accomplish. In some ways, that is closer to the probabalistic reasoning that has displaced causal thinking in western philosophy (and some sciences) since the early 20th c than the more mechanistic cause and invariant effect reasoning more prevalent in Indian thought. Obviously, the Caraka?s yukta pram??a is not the same thing as drawing knowledge through discourse employing reasoning based on dharma and artha (or the meaning/purpose of dharma).
The idea of prototypical ideas that emerge later under the rubric of M?m??s? is intriguing. The Yog?c?rabh?mi is an often ignored treasure trove of ideas circulating in India earlier than is often recognized (as is the Tattvasiddhi, though not adequately captured in Sastri?s translations, in which many of the stock arguments repeated in pram??av?da texts are already found). Squeamishness about sacrifices is quite early ? Jains and even S??khyans express those ideas, and one can see some reaction against that even in the Bhagavad G?t? (whether one dates that to 200 BCE or 200 CE). Dign?ga does deal with M?m??s? in PS, for which there is no (available) Chinese translation. (There is a hint that a one fascicle translation was made, but no evidence of it aside from a mention of its title in a catalogue of translations). 
The Chinese sources frequently cite a school by its founder?s name instead of the name of the school. Typically:
Kapila ???, the founder of S??khya ??; Ul?ka ??? (a.k.a. Ka??da ???), the founder of Vai?e?ika ???, and ??abha ???, the founder of the Nirgranthas.
As far as I can find, there is no Chinese version of Jaimini?s name. Again, I would be happy to learn otherwise.
Dan
