=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_Vajras=C5=ABc=C4=AB?=
In this discussion so far, nobody has mentioned the Ma?im?kalai, the Tamil Buddhist epic, usually dated to 6th century CE. In chapter 13, the character ?puttira? who was born to an adulterous Brahmin woman and brought up by a cow, tries to save a cow from being sacrificed by some Brahmins, but is caught by the Brahmins. When they insult ?puttira? as behaving like a son of a cow, he says, ?Acala? was the son of a cow. Ciru?ki was the son of a deer. Viri?ci was the son of a tiger. K?cakampa?a? was the son of a jackal praised by eminent persons/men of real wisdom. Given that these sages of your group were exalted persons of high honors, is there anything degrading in this world to belong to a lineage of a cow, you people of the four Vedas?? Later, when a Brahmin reveals the illegitimate birth of ?puttira?, ?puttira? questions the birth of Agastya and Vasi??ha also. 
There is a later work called Kapilarakaval which has been published as ?Kapilarahaval: A Tamil Poem on Caste? by A. V. Subramania Aiyar in 1975 with a free English rendering. The text questions the birth of Vasi??ha, ?akti, Par??ara, and Vy?sa. In his introduction and notes Aiyar compares the text with the Ma?im?kalai and the Vajras?ci. This text is dated by Aiyar to the 10th Century CE although others had given it a later date. ?
Hope this helps.
Regards,
Palaniappan
Re: [INDOLOGY] Vajras?c?
Thanks for the interesting references expanding on the notion of 
an ?k??ag?min in immediate textual association with the early A?vagho?a, 
and likewise to Dan for reminding me/us of YS 3.42. 
Of course, the spiritual metaphors of moving in(to)/within space and doing 
so 'auf dem Pfade des Windes' are both ancient and belong together; we just 
have to recall the frequently studied Vedic hymn ?V 10.136. 
Thus, considered decontextualized, Vajras?c? 12 has little force with respect 
to revealing much about its historical authorship. 
Yet, when stumbling over this verse, its authorship had already been 
disconnected from A?vagho?a, the 1st?2nd century CE author, with the 
weight of his erudition by Vincent, saying ?we might perhaps agree that 
the Vajras?c? is unlikely to have been composed before the 3rd-4th century CE. 
I am inclined to believe that it is even younger.? Placing the terminus post quem 
into the 3rd-4th century does likewise entail that ?the word of caution about 
chronology with respect to Manu? as shortly elaborated by Johannes Bronkhorst, 
however pertinent for the cases adduced, has rather lost its relevance for 
the Vajras?c?. And having not yet met with the notion of an ?k??ag?min 
in the various Buddhist philosophical contexts elaborating their notions of
m?rga in the centuries pointed out as the temporal frame for preliminarily 
(at the present stage of our knowledge) locating a terminus post quem, the
question of siddh?c?rya as a marker that distinguishes the Vajras?c??s author
A?vagho?a from A?vagho?a, the 1st?2nd century CE author, did assume 
suggestive significance. That is, despite the often questionable reliability
of colophons. 
Yet, once we hypothetically admit the significance of such a marker to 
socially and historically contextualize a siddh?c?rya A?vagho?a, it is possible 
to look at the assertion of Vajras?c? 12 and try to understand it in the broader 
context of how the Buddhists historically have dealt with the ethical problem 
of killing animals/sentient beings and enjoying them as food for human beings
(ritually embedded or not). Doing so one may arrive at reasonable results,
which nevertheless remain hypothetical ones, unless additionally backed up.
All the best, Hartmut
On Sun, Jan 26, 2020 at 4:48 PM Roland Steiner via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
See also:
Buddhacarita 1.80: [...] pavanapathena yath?gatam jag?ma.
Allegorical play (probably by A?vagho?a); description of the eight  
?dhhi-s of the Buddha: ... (pak??)va vyomni y?ti ... (ed. L?ders 1911,  
p. 66).
A?vagho?a's ??riputraprakara?a : ca v?yo? / (L?ders, "Das  
??riputraprakara?a, ein Drama des A?vagho?a", p. 396; n. 4:  
"Sicherlich war hier vom Wandeln 'auf dem Pfade des Windes' [...] die  
Rede.")
Best,
Roland Steiner
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
