[INDOLOGY] On Bhamati.
Dr.JhaThank you very much for elucidating on Bhamati.Alakendu Das.
Sent from RediffmailNG on Android
Sent: Wed, 8 Jan 2020 19:55:04 GMT+0530
Re: [INDOLOGY] On Bhamati.
  Dear colleagues,As far as Vachaspati Misra's personal life is concerned it's all based on legends.There is no historical evidence or book on it.For centuries in our Mithila there are many legends about the life of many Sanskrit scholars which we know through our seniors.As such it's very difficult to enquire into these things.As Mr Krisna prasad Ji said that Pt Vachaspati told her wife to leave,we are not aware of it.Pt Misra knew well that she was his wife.But he was completely absorbed in his multi-dimensional studies,as a result he could not take care of worldly behaviours.It is also a popular tale in Mithila that when Bhaskar refuted Shankar's Advaitavada&nbsp; a descendent Shankaracharya came to Mithila and requested Pt Mira's wife(in his absence) to write a profound commentary on Shankara bhasha and also protect its Validity.Pt Misra accepted this task and also expressed his difference on a few issues and refuted Bhaskara's&nbsp; commentary relating to Bhedabheda.It was the need of that hour which Adi Shankara had to meet through his Advaitavada.Meanwhile his wife Bharati expressed her wish for a baby.It was too late.Pt Misra regretted for his inability in that age of more than 65.He said this commentary is named Bhamati and you will be famous for the endless time.The great Vedantin Swami Karapatri Ji had said that if Mishrapada were not born Acharya pada were not be famous as is today.Kindest regards,SincerelyGirish K.JhaRetd. University ProfessorDept of SanskritPatna UniversityPresent Residence: Kolkata
Sent from my Samsung Galaxy smartphone.
Thanks for your elaboration on Bhamati.However, I am aware of this anecdote.I am looking for some new findings on her life.Thanks.Alakendu Das.
Sent from RediffmailNG on Android
Sent: Wed, 8 Jan 2020 15:51:41 GMT+0530
Re: [INDOLOGY] On Bhamati.
It is believed that, she was with husband without his knowledge for years. Even on his marriage occasion he was busy reading books. After years have elapsed, one night when&nbsp; he was writing a commentary on BS,&nbsp; there was a sudden darkness due to the lack of oil in the lamp. A lady came lit the fire. At that time VM realized he has a wife. He asks about how she managed to earn for living etc, later VM suggests his wife to leave.&nbsp;
On Wed, Jan 8, 2020, 3:12 PM alakendu das via INDOLOGY &lt;indology at list.indology.info&gt; wrote:
Respected scholars,&nbsp;"Bhamati" written and composed by Bachaspati Misra&nbsp; , as a commentary on Shankaracharya' version of Brahma Sutra, takes it's name from&nbsp; his wife by the same name.It may be a curious query to search if any&nbsp; records exist about the person named Bhamati, Bachaspati Misra's wife? .... whether she played any significant role in helping her husband compose this Magnum Opus..
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Alakendu Das.
Sent from RediffmailNG on Android
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
