Dear Christophe,
Thank you very much for finding all this additional bibliographic
information. Very interesting (and inspiring) about the Scheut Memorial
Library that you provided a link to. Thank you also for attaching a scan of
Rahder's article from *Acta Orientalia* giving the seventh bh?mi and its
commentary by Vasubandhu (I seem to have misplaced my photocopy of it from
his thesis).
While on this topic, it may be worthwhile to note that Rahder's edition of
the *Da?abh?mikas?tra* was based on seven paper manuscripts. Kondo's
edition was based on eight paper manuscripts, four of which are different
from the ones used by Rahder. The two very old manuscripts reproduced by
Matsuda Kazunobu indicate the need for a new Sanskrit edition of this
text (*Two
Sanskrit Manuscripts of the **Da?abh?mikas?tra**, Preserved at The National
Archives, Kathmandu*. Bibliotheca Codicum Asiaticorum, 10. Tokyo: The
Centre for East Asian Cultural Studies for Unesco, The Toyo Bunko, 1996).
Interestingly, as Matsuda points out, neither of these two have the verses,
g?th?s.
On the English translations, besides the one made by Megumu Honda that
Potter referred to in the quotation you gave from him (I have a scan of
this ready at hand if anyone needs it), and the two new ones made from the
Chinese by Bhikshu Dharmamitra that I referred to, there is one included in
Thomas Cleary's complete translation of the *Avata?saka-s?tra* from
?ik??nanda's Chinese published as *The Flower Ornament Scripture: A
Translation of the Avatamsaka Sutra*, 3 vols., 1984-1987 (1-vol. edition,
1993), as chapter 26. However, Bhikshu Dharmamitra points out in his
Translator's Introduction (p. 22) to his translation of the
*Da?abh?mika-s?tra* from ?ik??nanda's Chinese translation of the
*Avata?saka-s?tra*, chapter 26, that Cleary's translation
"appears to instead be a loose translation of the P. L. Vaidya Sanskrit
edition of the *Da?abh?mika S?tra*. Hence his supposed translation of this
chapter has little if any relation to ?ik??nanda's Chinese edition."
It may be noted that Bhikshu Dharmamitra has included the Vaidya edition of
the Sanskrit in Roman transliteration (from the Digital Sanskrit Buddhist
Canon Project) at the back of both of his translations of the
*Da?abh?mika-s?tra* from the Chinese. He has correlated this to his
translations by adding to them the alphabetical section headings (A, B, C,
etc.) from the Vaidya Sanskrit edition, which originated with the Rahder
edition. Vaidya's edition is based on Rahder's edition (see Vaidya's
Introduction, p. 1). It is not exactly a "revised" edition, as Potter
loosely termed it, since Vaidya did not have any additional materials from
which to revise it. He apparently did not have access to Kondo's edition.
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Tue, Feb 4, 2020 at 10:59 AM Christophe Vielle <
christophe.vielle at uclouvain.be> wrote:
