[INDOLOGY] The study of Sanskrit as the epitome of uselessness
 Dear Colleagues,?In?ONE HUNDRED YEARSOF SOLITUDE by GABRIEL GARCIA MARQUEZ (TRANS. GREGORY RABASSA) :
Aureliano had finished classifying the alphabet of the parchments, so that whenMelqu?ades asked him if he had discovered the language in which they had been writtenhe did not hesitate to answer.???Sanskrit,? he said.??Melqu?ades revealed to him that his opportunities to return to the room were limited.But he would go in peace to the meadows of the ultimate death because Aureliano wouldhave time to learn Sanskrit during the years remaining until the parchments became onehundred years old, when they could be deciphered. It was he who indicated to Aureliano that on the narrow street going down to the river, where dreams had been interpretedduring the time of the banana company, a wise Catalonian had a bookstore where therewas a Sanskrit primer, which would be eaten by the moths within six years if he did nothurry to buy it. For the first time in her long life Santa Sof?a de la Piedad let a feelingshow through, and it was a feeling of wonderment when Aureliano asked her to bring himthe book that could be found between Jerusalem Delivered and Milton?s poems on theextreme right-hand side of the second shelf of the bookcases. Since she could not read,she memorized what he had said and got some money by selling one of the seventeenlittle gold fishes left in the workshop, the whereabouts of which, after being hidden thenight the soldiers searched the house, was known only by her and Aureliano.??Aureliano made progress in his studies of Sanskrit as Melqu?ades? visits became lessand less frequent and he was more distant, fading away in the radiant light of noon. Thelast time that Aureliano sensed him he was only an invisible presence who murmured: ?Idied of fever on the sands of Singapore.? The room then became vulnerable to dust, heat,termites, red ants, and moths, who would turn the wisdom of the parchments intosawdust.
Best wishes,Oliver Fallon
    On Wednesday, 25 March 2020, 08:52:31 GMT, Christophe Vielle via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:  
 A quick search in?Marcel Proust's "? la recherche du temps perdu", provides the following extracts:
Alors le solitaire languit seul. Il n'a d'autre plaisir que d'aller ? la station de bains de mer voisine demander un renseignement ? un certain employ? de chemin de fer. Mais celui-ci a re?u de l'avancement, est nomm? ? l'autre bout de la France?; le solitaire ne pourra plus aller lui demander l'heure des trains, le prix des premi?res, et avant de rentrer r?ver dans sa tour, comme Gris?lidis, il s'attarde sur la plage, telle une ?trange Androm?de qu'aucun Argonaute ne viendra d?livrer, comme une m?duse st?rile qui p?rira sur le sable, ou bien il reste paresseusement, avant le d?part du train, sur le quai, ? jeter sur la foule des voyageurs un regard qui semblera indiff?rent, d?daigneux ou distrait ? ceux d'une autre race, mais qui, comme l'?clat lumineux dont se parent certains insectes pour attirer ceux de la m?me esp?ce, ou comme le nectar qu'offrent certaines fleurs pour attirer les insectes qui les f?conderont, ne tromperait pas l'amateur presque introuvable d'un plaisir trop singulier, trop difficile ? placer, qui lui est offert, le confr?re avec qui notre sp?cialiste pourrait parler la langue insolite?; tout au plus ? celle-ci quelque loqueteux du quai fera-t-il semblant de s'int?resser, mais pour un b?n?fice mat?riel seulement, comme ceux qui, au Coll?ge de France, dans la salle o? le professeur de sanscrit parle sans auditeur, vont suivre le cours, mais seulement pour se chauffer.
Ou plut?t non, un Institut de psychophysiologie sp?ciale vous conviendrait mieux. Et je vous vois surtout pourvu d'une chaire au Coll?ge de France, vous permettant de vous livrer ? des ?tudes personnelles dont vous livreriez les r?sultats, comme fait le professeur de tamoul ou de sanscrit devant le tr?s petit nombre de personnes que cela int?resse.
Eh bien?! si sp?ciales que soient ces guerres balkaniques, Lull?-Burgas c'est encore Ulm, l'enveloppement par l'aile. Voil? les sujets dont tu peux me parler. Mais pour le genre de choses auxquelles tu fais allusion, je m'y connais autant qu'en sanscrit.
https://alarecherchedutempsperdu.orghttps://alarecherchedutempsperdu.org/marcel-proust/
Le 25 mars 2020 ? 01:02, Jeffery Long via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> a ?crit :
Dear Patricia,
As a Missouri native, I particularly appreciate this one!
All the best,Jeff
Dr. Jeffery D. Long
Professor of Religion and Asian Studies
Elizabethtown CollegeElizabethtown, PA
https://etown.academia.edu/JefferyLong
Series Editor,?Explorations in Indic Traditions: Theological, Ethical, and PhilosophicalLexington Books
"One who makes a habit of prayer and meditation will easily overcome all difficulties and remain calm and unruffled in the midst of the trials of life." ?(Holy Mother Sarada Devi)
"We are a way for the Cosmos to know itself." (Carl Sagan)
    On Tuesday, March 24, 2020, 07:59:20 PM EDT, Patricia Sauthoff via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:  
 The Secret History?by Donna Tartt
p. 50?
"You get along with Henry?
?"Oh, sure thing," said Bunny, reared back in his chair. "We were roommates. Freshman year."?
"And you like him?"?
"Certainly, certainly. He's a hard fellow to live with though. Hates noise, hates company, hates mess. None of this brining your date back to the room to listen to a couple Art Pepper records, if you know what I'm trying to get at."?"I think he's sort of rude."?
Buddy shrugged. "That's his way. See, his mind doesn't work the same way yours and mine do. He's always up in the clouds with Plato or something. Works too hard, takes himself too seriously, studying Sanskrit and Coptic and those other nutty languages. Henry, I tell him, if you're going to waste your time learning something besides Greek -- that and the King's English are all I think a man needs, personally -- why don't you buy yourself some Berlitz records and brush up on your French. Find a little can-can girl or something. Voolay-voo coushay avec moi and all that."
"How many languages does he know?"
"I lost count. Seven or eight. He can read hieroglyphics."
"Wow."?Bunny shook his head fondly. "He's a genius, that boy. He could be a translator for the UN if he wanted to be."?
"Where's he from?"?
"Missouri."?
p. 356 also has a [not historically great] description of Buddhist Tantra.
On Tue, Mar 24, 2020 at 1:21 PM Deven Patel via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
