=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_pr=C4=81=E1=B9=87=C4=81y=C4=81ma_query?=
 Is this related to what was often spelled as 'tummo' (gtum-mo) in the old days? I heard it may have been a prerequisite?
Has anybody here actually witnessed any of this? Private responses are also accepted. :-)
Dean
    On Monday, March 30, 2020, 1:58:07 AM GMT+5:30, Matthew Kapstein <mkapstei at uchicago.edu> wrote:  
 actually, though, the Tibetan yogic practice of fleet-footedness is calledrkang-mgyogs (pronounced kang-gyok). I am not familar? with the details of the breathing involved,however. In any case, the technique is associated with the yakSas and hence is often referred to in the literature as gnod-sbyin-rkang-mgyogs, "yakSa fleetfootedness."
I recall that Alexandra David-Neel was particularly fascinated with this, though I do not remember in which of her many works she mentions it. Based on her depictions, it became a constant theme of popular occultist writing on Tibet, e.g. in the books of Lobsang "Tuesday" Rampa.
Matthew Kapstein
Directeur d'?tudes, ?m?rite
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Paris
Numata Visiting Professor of Buddhist Studies,
The University of Chicago
Sent: Sunday, March 29, 2020 2:33 PM
Re: [INDOLOGY] pr???y?ma query?The practice in the Tibetan tradition that Dean referred to is called lung-gom, and a practitioner of it is a lung-gom-pa. If you do a search for these terms you will find what little is known about it. I assume that the Tibetan spelling is rlung sgom, where rlung means pr??a (or v?yu), and sgom means meditation or contemplation or cultivation (bh?van?).
Best regards,
David ReigleColorado, U.S.A.
On Thu, Mar 26, 2020 at 5:21 AM Dean Michael Anderson via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
There is a similar well-known practice in the Tibetan tradition. I'll let our Tibetan experts elaborate.
There is also a well-known interaction going back centuries between Hindu yogis and Tibetan Buddhist yogis - they even revere some of the same adepts, especially in the Nath traditions. Among the actual yogic practitioners, the separation between Hinduism and Buddhism is not always so clear cut (the same is often true with Islamic fakirs and Sikhs as well).
So, I'd say, yes, there are similarities -- among the practitioners many would even go farther and say they are the same. I'm not aware of most of the scholarly literature on the subject. I'd be interested in what others might provide.
Best,
Dean
On Thursday, March 26, 2020, 1:57:01 PM GMT+5:30, patrick mccartney via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Dear Friends,?
there is a particular breath work for cultivating endurance amongst the training manuals of Ninjas and proponents of the syncretic mountain asceticism, known as shugend?, which is called the?"mountaineer's breath" (??????,?tozan-ka no koky?). It has an interesting paradiddle-like ratio of inhalation/exhalation that supposedly can extend one's ability to stealthily?run across mountains at night, as long as the individual breathed in this complicated way while running... I've recently tried it...I guess, I need more practice.Some stories say that a high-levelninjutsu-sha could run up to 200kms in a day! These extend into the stories of the "marathon monks" that, as part of their spiritual duty would run a marathon, everyday for days on end. Life without Netflix is unbounded with potential, it seems.
Anyways, the rhythmic pattern for this breath, is:?
1 round =?1-inhalation, 2-exhalations, 1-inhalation, 1-exhalation, 2-inhalations, 1-exhalation
I'm wondering if this is similar to any ha?ha yogic pr???y?ma??
I'm not implying any causal link, necessarily. I leave that to others, who, in common parlance across various social media make consonant claims. Interestingly, a re-orientalized and imagined mythical Ninja culture is framed as being able to help reduce stress and tension, make people fitter, run for the train... and generally more able to endure more of life's problems, and, also have a transformative potential related to the twins of transglobal yoga's popularity: 1) accumulate power(s) and 2) achieve moral reformation.?
All the best,
?????????????
Patrick McCartney, PhDResearch Affiliate - Organization for Identity and Cultural Development (OICD), Kyoto
Research Associate - Nanzan University Anthropological Institute, Nagoya, JapanVisiting Fellow - South and South-east Asian Studies Department,?Australian National UniversityMember - South Asia Research Institute (SARI), Australian National University
Skype / Zoom - psdmccartneyPhone + Whatsapp + Line: ?+61410644259Twitter - @psdmccartney @yogascapesinjap
?Yogascapes in Japan?Academia?Linkedin?Modern Yoga Research
bodhap?rvam calema ;-)
?
   - 
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info(where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
