From luther.obrock at gmail.com  Mon Mar  9 18:14:18 2020
From: luther.obrock at gmail.com (luther obrock)
Date: Mon, 09 Mar 20 14:14:18 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Summer School in South Asian Epigraphy, University of Toronto, Mississauga, May 28th-Jun 1
Message-ID: <CALM2Y+ovWiTMz+JghwMb7cLVXCje3uGCrmJPYyuuDz2p94gnKw@mail.gmail.com>

The University of Toronto Mississauga is pleased to announce the 2020
Summer School in South Asian Epigraphy from May 28th to June 1st. The theme
of this year?s 5-day summer school is the Sanskrit Epigraphical Ecumene.
The Post-Gupta explosion of epigraphic evidence demonstrates two
tendencies: one toward an increasing standardization of idiom and one
toward a diversification of scripts. To trace the evolution of this
important archive, we will examine inscriptions, their paleographical,
historical, and cultural importance, and their contexts within the larger
fields of art history, religion, literature, and history. Each day will
consist of two reading sessions concentrating on primary epigraphical
sources, and one discussion session of a topic salient to South Asian
epigraphy.



The Summer School will be led by scholars in the field of South Asian
epigraphy,
religion, and history. Scheduled facilitators include:



Daud Ali (University of Pennsylvania)

Elizabeth Cecil (Florida State University, Tallahassee)

Ranabir Chakravarti (Jawaharlal Nehru University)

Mekhola Gomes (University of Toronto)

Jason Neelis (Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo)

Luther Obrock (University of Toronto)

Annette Schmiedchen (Humboldt University, Berlin)



The Summer School will host a keynote speech by the renowned historian of
medieval South Asia, Brajadulal Chattopadhyaya (Prof. Emeritus, Jawaharlal
Nehru University, Delhi). This public lecture will bring together the
themes of the workshop and present them to a wider audience.

Room and board will be provided for the five days of the workshop to a
limited number of scholars and graduate students coming from outside of the
Greater Toronto Area. To apply for the summer school or for further
information, please contact Luther Obrock at luther.obrock at utoronto.ca


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20200309/092ecbb0/attachment.htm>

