=?utf-8?Q?[INDOLOGY]_our_R=C4=81m=C4=81ya=E1=B9=87a_material_on_the_Oxford_Research_Archive?=
DearColleagues,
We are pleased to announce the fourth update of our material on the 
Oxford Research Archive, first deposited in January 2016; this update is 
identified as March 2020. We do so in order that it can be available for 
others to consult even in its present, unfinished state.It can be 
accessed at the same location 
<http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:8df9647a-8002-45ff-b37e-7effb669768b> 
or you can find it via the Bodleian Libraries website, under ORA, by 
looking for either our surname or its title, "Development and spread of 
the R?ma narrative (pre-modern)".
There are additions, revisions and corrections to the material 
throughout.However, areas which have seen the greatest degree of 
updating or enlargement are:
ofurther re-organisation of folders (and ordering of them by letter): 
introducing a new Preliminaries folder, containing the Guidance notes 
(updated to reflect these changes), an abstract and abbreviations, and 
merging Lectures and papers (unpublished) and Notes towards publications 
within Ancillary material into a new Publications and lectures folder,
oinclusion within this new Publications and lectures folder of a number 
of our older or less accessible published articles (in folders labelled 
JLB publications and MB publications), addition of a further unpublished 
paper by MB in the Lectures and papers (unpublished) document, and 
transferring into this new folder the updated list of our publications 
formerly placed in the Bibliographic inventory folder,
ofurther revision and correction in all areas of Narrative Elements and 
additional material particularly in categories 7. (Instructional texts), 
8. (vernacular N Indian) and 9. (vernacular S Indian)
oadditions to the data within 10. visual (India) in particular within 
the Bibliographic inventories,
oinclusion in the Further Notes (visual) document of a long list of 
sculptural representations of the R?ma story organised by episode.
If you are aware of colleagues in other fields (for example Southeast 
Asian languages or visual culture) who might be interested, do please 
pass the information on to them ? and similarly, if any of you have 
access to suitable academic lists on which it could be posted, we would 
be grateful if you would send it to them.
As usual, we should be grateful for any comments from anyone who has 
used the material.
With all good wishes
John and Mary
John Brockington
Fellow, Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies
Emeritus Professor of Sanskrit, University of Edinburgh
Vice President, International Association of Sanskrit Studies
Mary Brockington
Fellow, Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies
Research Fellow, International Association of Sanskrit Studies
