[INDOLOGY] The study of Sanskrit as the epitome of uselessness
In a similar vein of Sanskrit being the epitome of cryptic languages, some time ago in a French TV series thriller, there was a scene where the police inspector gives instruction to his staff that is not carried out. 
He gets angry and shouts: ?  Comment faut-il vous l?expliquer ? En sanscrit ? En largonji des louch?bems ? ? (How should I explain it to you ? In Sanskrit ? in butcher?s slang ?)
This `largonji des louch?bem's is a weird slang that butchers used to communicate between themselves for joking about customers in their presence without them understanding. 
It is a variety of French where words starting with a consonant replace it with an l, and put the consonant at the end, followed by some ending which may vary. Thus boucher (butcher) becomes louch?bem and jargon (slang) becomes largonji. 
This is typical of what the average Frenchman thinks about Sanskrit: an esoteric and obscure language.
I would also like to point you to ?King David in Oudh: a Bible story in Sanskrit and the Just King at an Afghan court?, the Inaugural Lecture for the Oxford Boden Professorship by Pr. Minkowski:
?  During interviews for fellowships at Balliol, it is not uncommon for applicants to be confronted with the following question: as a fellow of this college, you might find yourself at a meal sitting next to the professor of Sanskrit. What would you talk about? 
Of course, the purpose of the question is to probe the ability of candidates to function successfully in a collegiate setting, in which they will have to make intelligent conversation with people who work on subjects very different from their own. The mention of Sanskrit is shorthand for what is out of the ordinary and stands at some intellectual remove. For this purpose, it is not that Sanskrit study is far from some subjects and close to others. 
For it is not that any candidate is expected to know something about Sanskrit. The topic of Sanskrit is assumed, rather, to be similarly dislocated from all customary intellectual pursuits, positioned, as it were, in the academic world?s realm of imaginary numbers.
Thinking of something to talk about with the professor of Sanskrit therefore serves as the college?s shibboleth, successful conversation with any other fellow being assured, according to this reasoning, a fortiori. ? 
A link to Pr Minkowski?s lecture is provided on his Web page <https://www.orinst.ox.ac.uk/people/christopher-minkowski>. 
Cheers
G?rard
