[INDOLOGY] WSC Canberra 18-22 January 2021: Section of Linguistics
WSC Canberra 18-22 January 2021: Section of Linguistics
Represented at all major universities in the world, Linguistics is one of
the most widely recognized branches of science.  It is also the scientific
discipline where solid and clearly identifiable pioneering achievements of
the Sanskrit tradition from the first millennium before CE onwards (in the
form of the linguistic analyses of the Padak?ras, P??ini?s grammar,
Bhartrhari?s linguistic theories, etc.) are most widely recognized.
Abstracts of papers in the broad field of Sanskrit Linguistics are invited
preferably in English because of its general accessibility, but also, in
view of its long-standing status as academic language in linguistics, in
Sanskrit. All abstracts proposed for the Section of Linguistics will be
judged in the same transparent way according to the originality of the
contribution, the indication of evidence in the form of linguistic
observations and citation of sources, the theoretical framework, and, if
applicable, a summary of the argument. Papers which primarily deal with
philological problems or with non-linguistic topics will be referred to one
of the other Sections of the conference.
Suggested areas of research:
- linguistics of Sanskrit
- linguistics of Vedic Sanskrit
- linguistics of epic, hybrid, classical Sanskrit
- sociolinguistics of Sanskrit and its relationship with Prakrit, Pali,
Apabhra??a, mediaeval and modern Indian languages.
- didactics of Sanskrit
- linguistic, grammatical, morphological, syntactic, semantic issues in
Sanskrit (... in Vedic, in epic ... Sanskrit)
- linguistic theories in Sanskrit works
- Sanskrit and the history of linguistics
This is a last minute reminder to those who were already planning to submit
an abstract but remained distracted by the exceptional situation.
Let us hope that the WSC in Canberra in 2021 will be for sanskritists and
indologists what the Olympic Games in Japan in 2021 hope to be for sporters
and sportfans: a light at the end of the tunnel.
Brendan Gillon
Jan Houben
