[INDOLOGY] Techniques of Blinding
Dear Aleksandar,
thank you, most certainly an almost global phenomenon, see the respective
entries in the English:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blinding_(punishment)
and in the German Wikipedia (which provides additional evidence in
particular from the Ancient Near East and the Sassanian Empire):
https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blendung_(Strafe)
Not only has the evidence from Tamil (Palaniappan), but also from Buddhist
texts shown that ut-pa? (caus.) was obviously the word used to express the
cutting out of an eyeball or the destruction of one?s eyesight. The
?ibij?taka (in ?rya??ra?s and in the Pali version) uses ut-p??ay- as well
in order to express these meanings (reference kindly provided by Roland
Steiner). In this J?taka, however, the careful removal of the eyeball of an
organ donor with a knife is dealt with: his eye must not be injured in
order to be able to be used by the organ recipient (could this become
another gateway for organ transplant fantasies?). Similarly, on the ?aiva
side, where ?Ti??a? takes out his own eyes with his arrow to replace the
bleeding eyes of ?ivali?ga?. By ?arrow? we must assume an arrow-head, which
is a small blade. Also on the Jaina side there is evidence for ?cutting
out? the eyes with a knife (netre ?astr?kayotp??ya, P?r?van?thacaritra of
Bh?vadevas?ri, reference kindly provided by Suhas Mahesh).
On the other hand, as we have seen, utp??ay- stands at the same time for
the destruction of eyeballs and of vision. Judging from the basic meaning
of the root ut-pa? (caus.: ?to tear up or out, pluck, pull out,
eradicate?), the ?cutting out? of the eyeballs would seem to be
historically closer to the original practice of blinding in India.
?Extraction? is a technical meaning of utp??ana in medical literature
(Meulenbeld,   HIML, 1A: 15, n. 158, another ref. by R. Steiner), which, it
is to assumed, is also carried out with the help of a blade. However,
according to the dictionaries, utp??ay can also mean ?to part asunder,
split? (apparently in medical texts).
A decision on the appropriate meaning rests accordingly on the instruments
respectively used: cutting is done with a blade, piercing with a needle.
They leave different marks on the victim and give him a different look.
If, which is anything but certain and therefore requires further research,
piercing of the retina by a needle was indeed an innovative, minimally
invasive, but highly effective blinding method introduced to India only
under Muslim rule, the translation of the verb utp??ay- needs to be adapted
to the corresponding technique (?cutting out? or ?piercing through?).
Regards,
Walter
Am So., 3. Mai 2020 um 16:56 Uhr schrieb Uskokov, Aleksandar <
aleksandar.uskokov at yale.edu>:
