[INDOLOGY] Vaisesikadarsanam with Commentary Unicode text uploaded.
Thank you for letting me know which edition, and thank you for making
available your unicode digital version of this very useful resource for
studying the Vai?e?ika-s?tras as they were understood in recent centuries.
Probably not all readers know that it is now possible to also study the Vai?
e?ika-s?tras as they were understood earlier, although the earliest
commentaries (e.g., ?treya's bh??ya) are still lost. Moreover, the Vai?e?
ika-s?tras themselves had been transmitted imperfectly in recent centuries,
because only an imperfect copy of the Vai?e?ika-s?tras was available to ?a?
kara-mi?ra on which he could write his Upask?ra commentary.
Better readings of the Vai?e?ika-s?tras and an earlier commentary than the
Upask?ra first became available in the 1957 book, *Vai?e?ikadar?ana of
Ka??da, with an Anonymous Commentary*, edited by Anantalal Thakur. It was
based on a single manuscript having lacunae. The Vai?e?ika-s?tras had to be
extracted from the commentary, so some of them were tentative.
This was followed by the 1961 book, *Vai?e?ikas?tra of Ka??da, with the
Commentary of Candr?nanda*, critically edited by Muni ?r? Jambuvijayaji (
https://archive.org/details/vaisesikasutraofkanadawiththecommentaryofcandranandaedmunijambuvijayajigos136_202003_44_q/page/n3/mode/2up).
Based on two manuscripts, this provides the earliest available direct
commentary on the Vai?e?ika-s?tras (Pra?astap?da's famous commentary is not
directly on each s?tra). One of the two manuscripts also gave the Vai?e?
ika-s?tras separately, besides as embedded in the commentary. So this
publication gave us much improved readings of the Vai?e?ika-s?tras over
those found in ?a?kara-mi?ra's Upask?ra and later commentaries.
Then came the 1985 book, *Vai?e?ika-dar?anam*, edited by Anantalal Thakur (
http://www.downloads.prajnaquest.fr/BookofDzyan/Sanskrit%20Hindu%20Texts/vaisesika_sutra_and_vartika_1985.pdf).
It includes the first two adhy?yas of Bha??a V?d?ndra's Vai?e?ika-s?tra-v?rtika
(or -nibandha), all that has so far been found. The anonymous commentary
edited by Anantalal Thakur and published in 1957 follows these two adhy?yas
so closely as to be an abridgement or summary (s?ra) of this longer
commentary by Bha??a V?d?ndra, says Anantalal Thakur. This shorter
commentary is reprinted here as appendix 1. Appendix 2 is an edition of the
ninth adhy?ya of an anonymous v?tti on the Vai?e?ika-s?tras. A manuscript
of the tenth adhy?ya of this v?tti has also been found, but apparently was
not edited because it is in too poor condition. Nonetheless, the readings
of the Vai?e?ika-s?tras from both of these adhy?yas have been given by
Anantalal Thakur in his 2003 book, *Origin and Development of the Vai?e?ika
System*, pp. 140-142.
As a result of all these manuscript finds and laboriously produced
editions, as well as the great expertise of Anantalal Thakur in this field,
we now have the nearest thing possible to a critical edition of the Vai?e?
ika-s?tras. It differs very substantially from the Vai?e?ika-s?tras as
found in ?a?kara-mi?ra's Upask?ra and the later commentaries following him,
Jayan?r?ya?a?s viv?ti and Candrak?nta?s bh??ya. Yet Anantalal Thakur's
definitive edition of the Vai?e?ika-s?tras has not become well known
because it was not published separately, but only as included in his 2003
book, *Origin and Development of the Vai?e?ika System*, pp. 24-121. It even
includes his English translation.
Apologies for the long post, but I thought some Indology readers may not be
aware of these editions and might want to be. The Vai?e?ika-dar?ana is,
after all, an important topic in Indian philosophy.
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Fri, Jun 26, 2020 at 11:59 PM Krishnaprasad G <
krishnaprasadah.g at gmail.com> wrote:
