[INDOLOGY] Online Indo-European Etymological Dictionary?
With respect, Pokorny's dictionary is notoriously out of date and should
be used nowadays with only with extreme caution. The current standard
references are unfortunately not online in digital form, although .pdfs
of them exist online if you know - not wanting to openly advocate mass
book piracy - what I will here euphemistically call the right places to
look. 
For verbs and verbal stems: 
 	* LIV: Rix, Helmut, Martin Joachim K?mmel, Thomas Zehnder, Reiner Lipp
& Brigette Schirmer. 2001. _Lexikon der indogermanischen Verben: Die
Wurzeln und ihre Prim?rstammbildungen (2e Aufl.)._ Wiesbaden: Reichert
Verlag.
A selection of roots that form nominal stems (not fully complete, but
very comprehensive of the roots that it does cover): 
 	* NIL: Wodtko, Dagmar, Britta Irslinger & Carolin Schneider. 2008.
_Nomina im Indogermanischen Lexikon_. Heidelberg: Winter Verlag.
For pronouns and particles: 
 	* LIPP: Dunkel, George. 2014. _Lexikon der indogermanischen Partikeln
und Pronominalst?mme. Band 1: Einleitung, Terminologie, Lautgesetze,
Adverbialendungen, Nominalsuffixe, Anh?nge und Indices. Band 2:
Lexikon_. Heidelberg: Universit?tsverlag Winter.
Of course, as this is the Indology list, you may already know of
Mayrhofer's dictionaries specifically for Vedic and Sanskrit (there are
scans of these currently on archive.org,
cf.https://archive.org/search.php?query=mayrhofer). 
 	* Mayrhofer, Manfred. 1992-2001. _Etymologisches W?rterbuch des
Altindoarischen (3 vols.)_ Heidelberg: Carl Winter Universit?tsverlag.
	* 
Mayrhofer, Manfred. 1956-1980. _Kurzgefa?tes etymologisches W?rterbuch
des Altindischen._ Heidelberg: Carl Winter Universit?tsverlag. 
Finally, if you have institutional access, the dictionaries in Brill's
Indo-European Etymological Dictionaries Series have online versions,
although currently the series is currently limited to individual
languages and branches and does not allow searching entries by root
etymon. https://dictionaries.brillonline.com/iedo 
For Middle and Modern Indo-Aryan to Sanskrit, I would echo Eric's
previous suggestion of the digital version of Turner's _Comparative
Dictionary of the Indo-Aryan Languages_ on UChicago's digital
dictionaries of South Asia website.
https://dsalsrv04.uchicago.edu/dictionaries/soas/ 
I hesitate to add to all of this that over the last year or two I've
been writing a series of blog posts on my own website aimed at general
audiences outlining the main Indo-European etymological resources
currently available, although I haven't gotten to the Indo-Aryan and
Iranic language sub-families yet.
https://consultingphilologist.wordpress.com/indo-european-etymological-dictionaries/.
The  TL;DR version of the Indo-Aryan one would be, use the
aforementioned dictionaries of Mayrhofer and Turner in conjunction with
the most up-to-date root dictionaries of the LIV, NIL, and LIPP.
Apologies for the length of this email and only being tangentially
helpful with the requested 'online' Indo-European etymological
dictionaries, but I felt I would be remiss to not point these resources
out since while Pokorny's dictionary is readily available in many
different online versions, it is no longer a reliable reference work. If
you need help accessing the other more recent IE root dictionaries I've
mentioned here, please do not hesitate to contact me off list. 
All very best wishes, 
Matthew
Dr M. J. C. Scarborough
Research Associate in Indo-European Comparative Linguistics
DLCE, Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History
Contract Lecturer (Classics)
Department of the Humanities, MacEwan University
?? ??????? ?????? ???? ???????? ??? ??????.
- Socrates in Pl. Phae. 244a 
On 2020-07-03 10:38, Peter Wyzlic via INDOLOGY wrote:
