From arjunsr1987 at gmail.com  Sat Jul 11 11:44:23 2020
From: arjunsr1987 at gmail.com (Arjuna S R)
Date: Sat, 11 Jul 20 17:14:23 +0530
Subject: [INDOLOGY] International seminar (online) on Jayatirtha and Dialectics on 13 July at 10 am (IST) - invitation
Message-ID: <CAOy-tFS5v8U90gKs8A_kZxTQqsDSCaGsYEgdHAMyQt52tp6Rkg@mail.gmail.com>

Dear esteemed members,

Apologies for cross-posting!



Greetings from the Department of Philosophy ? Manipal!



As the present COVID crisis has altered the way we live and interact with
each other, it is imminent to explore the different modes of interactions
to nurture and sustain our academic endeavours. It has been possible to do
so through virtual platforms connecting with people who live across the
globe. At this juncture, The Department of Philosophy (DoP) ? Manipal in
collaboration with Vedic-Vedantic Studies and Research Institute (VVSRI),
New Delhi in technical collaboration with Indian Council of Philosophical
Research (ICPR), New Delhi are jointly hosting a one-day international
seminar on Sri Jayatirtha and Dialectics on Monday, 13 July 2020 from 10 am
to 6 pm online on the occasion of Jayatirtha?s 632nd Aradhana. Erudite
scholars - HH Sri Vidyashrisha-tirtha Svamiji of Sosale Vyasaraja Matha
(formerly known as Prof Dr D Prahlada Char), Prof Dr Shrinivasa Varakhedi,
Prof Dr Arindam Chakrabarti and other notable speakers from IIT Delhi,
Public Health Foundation of India and Senseforth Technologies are invited
to speak on Jayatirtha?s hermeneutical expositions on the epistemology,
logic and metaphysics in Dvaita philosophy.



Recalling the words of the eminent scholar Dr BNK Sharma sets the tone for
this seminar, "If Indian philosophy is to be accepted as much more than an
interpretation of certain basic texts and traditions, though not as
completely detached from them, attempts should be made to present the
various systems of thought and their logical, epistemological and
ontological foundations and their metaphysical superstructures, in their
architectonic unity. The philosophical system of Madhva and his
commentators has not received adequate attention from this point of view?
The period of Jayatirtha (c. 1365-88) was one of remarkable development in
the history of Dvaita thought and its literature. He gave final shape and
form? in the light of contemporary logic and philosophy. Jayatirtha?
accomplished it with? his expertise in difficult textual exegesis and
philosophical analysis of problems, his graceful style and extraordinary
genius for amplification and clarification of details? His methodology of
thought and exposition has been followed by all the subsequent writers of
the system".



On behalf of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), an Institution of
Eminence in India and the Vedic Vedantic Studies and Research Institute as
well as Indian Council of Philosophical Research (ICPR), we extend a warm
welcome to you to this international seminar to be held online this
Monday. Those
wishing to attend may register at https://bit.do/philosophy-registration.
Please find the invitation attached.


Regards,

Arjuna


Dr Arjuna S R

Assistant Professor

Department of Philosophy

Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE)

&

Acquisition Editor

Manipal Universal Press (MUP)


Sixth Floor, Advanced Research Centre(ARC),

Madhav Nagar, Manipal 576104


Mobile:  +91-8106783000; Phone: 0820-2937750

Website: https://manipal.edu/philosophy.html; http://mahabharata.manipal.edu


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20200711/127b20c5/attachment.htm>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: InternationalSeminaronSriJayatirthaandDialectics.pdf
Type: application/pdf
Size: 1137189 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20200711/127b20c5/attachment.pdf>

