[INDOLOGY] Overseas students and online teaching (US)
Many of us know students in similar straits. Schools have been working on various ways of threading a difficult needle that will address for the Fall semester student, faculty, and staff safety on one hand, provide quality education on the other, and satisfy the financial bottom line, all at the same time. The new federal rules have certainly made that more difficult. Students on campus is a recipe for spreading the disease - that has been demonstrated, including recent outbreaks in Seatle, etc. Hybrid mode will include many remote learning courses (the details as to which parts of the curriculum will be online, in-person, or even a hybid classroom in which an in-class session is simultaneously including remote learning enrolled students, perhaps with a trained student monitor to keep the two sides interacting, is still being worked out in some schools), which will mean that students will have to find at least one in-class course to take to retain their visa, regardless of relevance or interest.
For many years, students in Korea studied English from early grades on, many with the hope of attending higher education in the US. In more recent years, there has been a shift toward studying Chinese instead of English, many Koreans are now studying in Chinese universities rather than US. Many Chinese students are starting to consider whether bothering to study in the US is worth it at all. Many schools have encouraged large Chinese enrollments for financial reasons. My wife teaches Japanese at Boston University - most of the students studying Japanese there are Chinese, so there is some concern that the long term future of the program itself might be endangered by Trump?s xenophobia.
Clearly, instead of stabilizing things during the unavoidable uncertainties of a pandemic, he has just increased the uncertainties, while pushing everyone to take the least safe course of action. Meanwhile he just formally began the process of withdrawing from WHO. Wherever he?s turned his attention, he has been a force for destruction and death, from the environment, to federal agencies, to corruption, to disease management.
Dan
