[INDOLOGY] Kerala Advaita mathas
See on the topic the recent field-studies by Olga Nowicka (Jagiellonian University, Krako?w), preparing her Ph.D.:
? "Conquering the World, Subduing the Minds: S?an?kara?s Digvijaya in the Local Context", Cracow Indological Studies 18, 2016, 
pp. 145-166. (available online)
 ? "Vedic Ritualism and Advaita Veda?nta Monastic Institutions in Kerala", Studia Religiologica, vol. 50/2, 2017 (not seen)
?  "In the Footsteps of S?an?kara: Mapping a Pan-India Digvijaya in the local space of Kerala", In: Polish Contributions to South Asian Studies, ed. Danuta Stasik, Warszawa, Dom Wydawniczy ELIPSA, 2017, pp. 60-69. (not seen)
? Local Advaita Ved?nta Monastic Tradition in Kerala: Locating, mapping, networking", The Polish Journal of the Arts and Culture, New Series 9, 2019
https://www.academia.edu/42286751/Local_Advaita_Ved?nta_Monastic_Tradition_in_Kerala_Locating_mapping_networking
? Her paper at the IIGRS in Ghent in September 2017 (see abstract below) was unfortunately not published in the Proceedings (see Pu?pik?, vol. 5: Tracing Ancient India Through Texts and Traditions: Contributions to Current Research in Indology, ed. Heleen De Jonckheere, Marie-H?l?ne Gorisse and Agnieszka Rostalska, Oxford ? Philadelphia: Oxbow Books)
The Great S?an?karabrahma?nanda: 20th Century Hagiography of a Malayali Sam?nya?si?
Olga Nowicka, PhD Candidate, Jagiellonian University, Krako?w
S?an?karabrahma?nandavila?sam composed by A?lattur Anujan Nambudirippad (1882-1943) is a hagiographic text composed, as author states himself, in Man?iprava?lam, a literary style used in medieval liturgical texts in Kerala which used an admixture of Malayalam and Sanskrit. The work narrates a life story of a Trichur Thekke Mat?ham?s (?Southern Mat?ham?) Sva?miya?r (i.e. head of a monastic institution) named S?an?karabrahma?nanda who was said to be born in Kira?n?n?a?t?t?u Mana. As the Thekke Mat?ham parampara? list enumerates few Swamiya?rs of that name, it is still uncertain to which individual the story relates. The author of the composition was born in 1882 in A?lattur Mana near Wadakkancherry in Trichur District (central Kerala) as the son of A?lattur Janardanan Nambudirippad. His real name was Krishnan and he studied Vedas and Sanskrit in the traditional way in gurukula ? possibly in Vadakke Mat?ham Brahmaswam of Trichur what could explain his familiarity with the Trichur monastic tradition. He was considered to be proficient in prose as well as in poetry. One of his major works was a historical novel Ra?n?i? Gan?ga?dhara? Laks?mi?.
The poem S?an?karabrahma?nandavila?sam by A?lattur Anujan Nambudirippad is an eulogy (comprising 326 stanzas) of S?an?karabrahma?nanda ? a sam?nya?si? of the Keralan Advaita Veda?nta monastic tradition. The text is a unique record of the Advaita Veda?nta ascetic?s life in the beginning of the twentieth century Kerala. It gives detailed description of the pu?rva?s?rama life of S?an?karabrahma?nanda, his di?ks?a? ceremony, quotidian ritualistic routine, funeral rites etc. but it also shows the recognition and standing of a Nambudiri sam?nya?si? within the local community.
In this paper, I intend to present a closer perspective on the regional Advaita Veda?nta monastic tradition in Kerala in the early twentieth century by analyzing selected portions from the text S?an?karabrahma?nandavila?sam. 
???????????????????
Christophe Vielle <https://uclouvain.be/en/directories/christophe.vielle>
Louvain-la-Neuve
