presses in the vicinity of where I grew up in Pune, after printing a
certain number of copies of a book, and occasionally not even the whole
book, but a few forms containing a certain number of pages, they had to
disassemble the metal type to be used to re typeset the next batch of
pages.  I have seen the tasks of assembling a page letter by letter, and
then disassembling it letter by letter.  This had to do with the cost of
purchasing the metal type sets and storing them for repeated use.  The
press at the Bhandarkar Institute was of a similar kind.  I have heard
discussions at the BORI about photographic reprinting of books and this
involved the matter of firing the old printing press staff etc.  These were
difficult decisions for institutions like the Anandashram and the BORI, and
the changes came only slowly.  At some point, I remember that Professor
K.S. Arjunwadkar started a business of computer typesetting called
??????????? within the building of Anandashram, and then he slowly helped
the Anandashram itself to usher into a technology change, including
photographic reprinting and photographing the manuscripts of the
institution.  The old leadership of these institutions like Professor R.N.
Dandekar was unfamiliar with the new technologies, and took a long time to
go for it.  I was a witness for the introduction of the first PC at the
BORI, as I was staying at the guesthouse of the BORI and had a laptop and a
printer in my room.  One day, Professors Dandekar, Ghatage and Mehendale
all came to my guesthouse room to see for themselves what this thing called
a computer was and what it could do.  I was myself just getting used to
this technology, but had by then designed my first Devanagari fonts using
the Chi-Writer software for PCs.  The question that these professors asked
me was if the computer could interpret the Sanskrit texts for them, and
when I said that it could not, they said that it was of no use to them.  I
am recounting this story just to say that change in technology came very
slowly to these deeply entrenched institutions.
Madhav M. Deshpande
Professor Emeritus, Sanskrit and Linguistics
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA
Senior Fellow, Oxford Center for Hindu Studies
[Residence: Campbell, California, USA]
On Fri, Jul 17, 2020 at 1:40 PM Elliot Stern via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
