[INDOLOGY] "Psychological complexity" of Sanskrit language/literature
Dear Professor Zydenbos,
Thank you very much for your constructive reply!
I rejoiced in reading that C. G. Jung also was the reason for you to take
up Sanskrit. I took up Sanskrit, Indology and Buddhology as well in part
because of Jung's and other psychoanalysts interest in Indian and Eastern
psychology and meditation, as well as because it was evident that early
Buddhist and other Indian spiritual traditions offered an unparalleled
deep, rich and rational analysis of the human psyche, and understanding of
how to change and develop it. I personally fully agree that a great deal of
Indian philosophy is some form of psychology or "psychology".
I mentioned "quantitative" mostly because of the classical Kantian "maxim"
"in jeder besonderen Naturlehre nur so viel eigentliche Wissenschaft
angetroffen werden k?nne, als darin Mathematik anzutreffen ist." What I
meant was that some form of statistical analysis and corpus-related
procedures are desirable, some modern linguistics, unless we want to find
us in the old debate "I understand it differently". Renowned Russian
linguist Vyacheslav V. Ivanov wrote in his seminal work "Even and Odd"
(which is a treatise on the nature of language and human mind, that
Alexander von Humboldt would have written, had he lived in the second part
of the 20th century) and would tell us in his classes that "people seem to
understand and discuss things very well between each other, until one of
them asks "what do you mean by this and that (word or concept)"". I think
at least some statistical overview of psychological features of Sanskrit is
possible, if we compare how many words in Sanskrit correspond to the
similar words in other languages (see my earlier post about love on the
list, and we can compare other psychological phenomena, such as friendship,
trust, betrayal, rage etc.). Of course, so to say, Sanskrit *verba
cogitandi*, that you mention, would need a special analysis. I can imagine
that would bring us a tentative (but scientific) answer, whether some
languages are psychologically more nuanced than others, and to what
extent/degree... The next question would be -- what shall we do, having
ascertained that...
The study of such cognitive and psychological terms and concepts, related
to inner human life, that you mention, would be very interesting. I imagine
that some of the procedures and tools of modern cognitive linguistics,
semantics and pragmatics could be used in such enterprise (cp., for
instance, Anna Wierzbicka's work).
Kind regards,
Gleb Sharygin
??, 19 ???. 2020 ?. ? 17:37, Robert Zydenbos <zydenbos at uni-muenchen.de>:
