[INDOLOGY] "Psychological complexity" of Sanskrit language/literature
Dear Sri/Smt Gleb Sharygin,
There are multiple ways in which this issue can be approached:
1. There are studies on different psychologically relevant
Vadika Shaastras, Bauddha and Jaina granthas and panthas that are
published. Those could be used to collect the Sanskrit terms and concepts
that are focused on there. For example, Yoga Sutras is one such book full
of such terms and all publications on Yoga Sutras help in collecting the
terms. Works on Vedanta, Sankhya, Rasa aspect of Alankara Shastra,
Vakyapadiyam and other Arthika granthas of Vyakarana, Mind related aspects
of Ayurveda, and  Tantra works are all useful for such a collection.
Publications on  Bauddha and Jaina theoretical and practice-related works
are particularly very rich in Psychological terms and concepts.
2. There started a movement of Indian Psychology some decades ago and all
the publications from that group may also be helpful.
3. Nowadays, the term and concept of Vedic Psychology are gaining a new
significance with various universities starting courses on Vedic
Psychology. I myself designed and am teaching a six semester undergraduate
stream of courses on Vedic Psychology at the Maharashtra Institute of
Technology's School of Vedic Sciences, at Pune. Chinmaya Vishva Vidyapeeth
now has focus on Vedic Psychology. Sri Sri University, Bhuvaneshwar started
a Department of  Contemplative and Behavioural Studies with special focus
on Vedic Psychology. More and more such institutes and departments are
emerging. It may be useful to focus on the terms and concepts as being
taught in these courses.
4. Another important approach could be to trace the Sanskrit origins of
some of the contemporary psychological theories, practices and concepts.
Mindfulness is one such. Its origin in the (practices referred to by) the
Pali term Sati and its Sanskrit chaayaa Smriti are already widely
discussed. Though discussions on  'self' can variously be tracked, its
connection with the Sanskrit Atman, at least in the case of some important
contrubutions in psychology, can not be overlooked. The term
'self-actualization' sounds very close to Aatmasaakshaatkaasra. The
discussions on 'consciousness' and their connection and comparability with
the discussions on Chit, Chaitanya etc. is another such interesting aspect.
There are more such.
Following all such approaches, it may be worthwhile project to prepare a
glossary of psychology related Sanskrit terms. To my knowledge, such a work
doesn't currently exist.
Best wishes for your work in this direction,
Regards,
Nagaraj
On Wed, Aug 19, 2020 at 2:50 AM Gleb Sharygin via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Director,  Inter-Gurukula-University Centre , Indic Academy
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
BoS Veda Vijnana Gurukula, Bengaluru.
Member, Advisory Council, Veda Vijnana Shodha Samsthanam, Bengaluru
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies,
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
