[INDOLOGY] "Psychological complexity" of Sanskrit language/literature
Dear Antonia,
Thank you very much for your reply.
My (perhaps entirely unhelpful) first reaction to this is that Sanskrit,
But does it, then, mean, that if there really are more words for
psychological phenomena in Sanskrit, it is psychologically richer than
other languages? Because if they are there, it does not matter, how they
"got there", in a psychological sense...
Also, my guiding principle in the questions you ask would be to make sure I
After many years of debates on the nature of language and human
consciousness with colleagues from the fields of linguistics, psychology,
philosophy, biology etc. I have come to see *a language* as a dynamic unity
of four components: phonetics, syntax, semantics and pragmatics. Without
any of those a system wouldn't be a language, a natural language
(morphology does not seem to be essential, as there are languages that do
well (almost) without it, such as Chinese). If we look at Sanskrit through
that lens, it would be obvious that it is its rich semantics and especially
pragmatics (ways of conveying an intention, intended meaning through
context, quite independently of a grammatical form of an expression) that
create a rich psychological environment/interface. I would understand the
written lexicon and a body of texts as some "visible", "sensible"
embodiment of a language's semantics and pragmatics. It is important to
remember, I believe, that *a language* can have no writing, no written and
even orally codified grammar, be entirely oral, as languages of indigenous
tribes in Tanzania and Amazon rainforest. What is left then, is just *what
you can do* with a language, what you can convey and express (which reminds
me of Austin's "How to Do Things with Words").
Regarding the Sanskrit lexicon you suggest that it was the writers' need to
be innovative, that expanded it. I don't know which percentage in the
Sanskrit corpus should be occupied by religious, ritual, spiritual,
philosophical etc. literature, but I suppose that it is a considerable part
(if not major). Did the Indian spiritual seekers, priests, philosophers,
religious adepts, scholars, scientists and other writers of the kind, who
had produced a wealth of scientific, psychological and philosophical terms
and conceptions, many of which had come to play the central role in
classical Indian world-view, also feel the need to be just "innovative", in
your opinion?
Kind regards,
Gleb Sharygin
??, 18 ???. 2020 ?. ? 23:51, Antonia Ruppel <rhododaktylos at gmail.com>:
