[INDOLOGY] [RISA-L LIST] sources on markers of girls' transition to adulthood
Thank you to everyone for these very helpful responses.
Amy, you have a very good question, and it's certainly part of what is
driving my initial query. I think Patrick Olivelle's earlier response here
is relevant, which quoted Kau?ilya?s Artha??stra 3.3.1 (his translation):
"A woman 12 years old has reached the age for legal transactions
(vyavah?ra), as also a man 16 years old."
To Walter Slaje's point, a marriage is a legal contract, and being able to
enter into legal contracts has long been established as the marker of legal
adulthood. For me that begs the question: what other binding legal
contracts were girls and women allowed to enter besides marriage? For
example, do we know if they were able to bring grievances to have them
resolved via the legal system? (And this may be further complicated by
caste/class/etc.)
Another pertinent question for me: was it age, marriage, or consummation of
marriage that marked a girl's legal adulthood? The marriage age dropped
over time, and girls married at very young ages were often not sent to live
with their husbands until after menarche. (It's a modern example, but here
in the US several states have no minimum age for marriage, parental and/or
judicial consent is all that's required. Girls as young as 10 have been
married to men in their mid-late 20s and early 30s, fairly recently, and it
most frequently happens in evangelical communities in the rural South. If
married at 16 or older, they are legally an adult. But 15 or under, they're
not, and can't even hire a lawyer or seek a divorce without permission of
their guardian... which is their spouse.)
All of the (very) helpful responses so far reminded me of a book I read a
long while back. Narendra Nath Bhattacharyya has some interesting
information on all of this in *Indian Puberty Rites *(p. 37-38)
*:*
?In the Dharmas?tra of Gautama it is stated that the girl should be given
in marriage at puberty; she is allowed to remain a virgin until her third
menstruation. [citation: XVIII.20-23] Par??ara says:
?A girl of eight is called Gaur?; but one who is nine years old is a
Rohin?; one who is ten years old is a Kany?; beyond this one is Rajasval?
(i.e. one who has the experience of menstruation). If a person does not
give away a maiden when she has reached her twelfth year, his Pit?s
(ancestors) will have to drink every month her menstrual discharge. The
parents and also the eldest brother go to hell on seeing an unmarried girl
becoming Rajasval?.? [citation: Par??ara Sm?ti, VII.6-9]
?The same is also stated in other Sm?tis. [citation: Samvarta, 65-66;
B?had-yama, III.19-22, A?giras, 126-28] The V?yu Pur??a [citation:
LXXXIII.44] extols the marriage of a Gaur? by remarking that her son
purifies 21 ancestors on his father?s side and six male ancestors of his
mother?s side. In a later work it is stated that a Br?hma?a should marry a
Br?hma?a girl who is a Nagnik? or Gaur?, the former being a girl over eight
years but less than ten, and the latter being one who is between ten and
twelve and has not had menstruation. [citation: Vaikh?nasa, VI.12] As the
marriageable age of the girls came down, the rite of Caturth?karma
naturally became irrelevant and it was performed when the girls attained
maturity long after the marriage and it accordingly came to be known as
Garbh?dh?na.?
Just as a final thought, legal "adulthood" has for quite a large part of
human history in most cultures been very different for women than for
men, with differing ages, privileges, responsibilities, and legal
implications. For that matter, both the idea of a "child" or "childhood" as
well as what marks the boundary between "child" and "adult" have also
changed.
Speaking of... if anybody is still reading this?not to hijack my own
thread, but I'm reminded that I'm also looking for references on children,
children's bodies, and rules around children's participation in ritual and
public life. Especially on girls, but I'm also interested in the
similarities and differences as ideals represented in the texts. But that
may be another post!
Thank you all so far!
-s
Sundari Johansen Hurwitt | sundari.johansen at gmail.com | she/her
On Sat, Sep 5, 2020 at 9:58 AM Amy Langenberg <langenap at eckerd.edu> wrote:
