[INDOLOGY] CALL FOR APPLICATIONS: SoFCB JUNIOR FELLOWS PROGRAM
Rare Book School?s Andrew W. Mellon Society of Fellows in Critical Bibliography (SoFCB) invites applications for its 2021?23 cohort of junior fellows. The deadline is Monday, 2 November 2020.
Continuing the work of the Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship in Critical Bibliography (2012?17), this scholarly society works to advance the study of texts, images, and artifacts as material objects through capacious, interdisciplinary scholarship?and to enrich humanistic inquiry and education by identifying, mentoring, and training promising early-career scholars. Junior Fellows will be encouraged and supported in integrating the methods of critical bibliography into their teaching and research, fostering collegial conversations about historical and emerging media across disciplines and institutions, and sharing their knowledge with broader publics.
The fellowship includes tuition waivers for two Rare Book School courses, as well as funding for Junior Fellows to participate in the Society?s annual meeting and orientation. Additional funds are available for fellows to organize symposia at their home institutions, and fellows will have the option of attending a bibliographical field school to visit libraries, archives, and collections in a major metropolitan area. After completing two years in good standing as Junior Fellows, program participants will have the option to become Senior Fellows in the Society.
The Society is committed to supporting diversity and to advancing the scholarship of outstanding persons of every race, gender, sexual orientation, creed, and socioeconomic background, and to enhancing the diversity of the professions and academic disciplines it represents, including those of the professoriate, museums, libraries, archives, public humanities, and digital humanities. We warmly encourage prospective applicants from a wide range of disciplines, institutions, and areas of expertise.
For more information and to apply, please visit:
http://rarebookschool.org/admissions-awards/fellowships/sofcb/
For more information about diversity and the SoFCB, please visit the SoFCB Diversity & Outreach Committee?s Welcome Letter: https://rarebookschool.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/SoFCB_Welcome_Letter_2020.pdf
Inquiries about the SoFCB Junior Fellows Program can be directed to Sonia Hazard, SoFCB Selection Committee Chair, at shazard at fsu.edu<mailto:shazard at fsu.edu>, or Donna Sy, SoFCB Administrative Director, at rbs-mellon at virginia.edu<mailto:rbs-mellon at virginia.edu>.
Pranav Prakash
Windgate Fellow, Center for the Book, U-Iowa
Junior Mellon Fellow in Critical Bibliography, Rare Book School, U-Virginia
https://www.pranav-prakash.com/
