a pdf (of a photocopy) is on my website, under articles 2006.
Herman Tieken
Stationsweg 58
2515 BP Den Haag
The Netherlands
00 31 (0)70 2208127
website: hermantieken.com<http://hermantieken.com/>
Van: Matthew Kapstein <mkapstei at uchicago.edu>
Verzonden: vrijdag 11 september 2020 14:34:05
Aan: indology; Tieken, H.J.H.
Onderwerp: Re: Br?hm? in Sri Lanka
Dear Herman,
Please be so kind as to send a reference to this interesting article,
or, better, the article itself (or a link to it).
thanks in advance,
Matthew
Matthew Kapstein
Directeur d'?tudes, ?m?rite
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Paris
Numata Visiting Professor of Buddhist Studies,
The University of Chicago
Sent: Friday, September 11, 2020 6:49 AM
[INDOLOGY] Br?hm? in Sri Lanka
Dear LIst Members,
In the concluding chapter of a book I have by now nearly finished about the A?oka inscriptions (I am not a historian, epigraphist or archeologist, but a sanskritist with an interest in, among other things, how the different inscriptions attributed to A?oka are related among each other) I cannot avoid dealing with the question of the age and origin of the Br?hm? script. It has not taken me long to find out that that is a controversial subject. Maybe, however, I will be able to take the sting out of it. One of the findings in my book will be that the inscriptions are a by-product the correspondence (through letters, that is, movable objects) with which the king (dev?na?piye piyadas? l?j?) communicated with his representatives in the realm. Even if the inscriptions are the earliest surviving specimen of writing in India, underlying them are letters on perishable material. As to the question how much older this practice of writing letters was, I may point to Rock Edict Series 14, which testifies to the existence of a "poetics" of diplomatic letters (see my article on the gu?a m?dhurya).
Herman
Herman Tieken
Stationsweg 58
2515 BP Den Haag
The Netherlands
00 31 (0)70 2208127
website: hermantieken.com<http://hermantieken.com/>
