[INDOLOGY] Question
Dear Deshpande Sir,
I am well aware of the problem that you mention. I have come across this
question so many times. Not only the *Anubhav?m?ta*, but also parts of
J??ne?vara's commentary on the BG resonate with a certain non-dual
philosophical notion. But this parallel resonance of ideas and metaphors is
very commonly present in the intellectual history of Sanskrit systems at
large. But I do not have any good reason to create a narrative about why it
should be either influenced by or attached to "Kashmir ?aivism". Whatever
the latter term stands for, we have certainly witnessed it rather becoming
fashionable to attach all non-dual notions either to "Kashmir ?aivism" or
to Abhinavagupta and it also sounds esoterically pleasing to uninformed
quasi-modern sensibilities. In a sense, this is what M?dhav?c?rya (author
of the *Sarvadr?anasa?graha*) was doing, at one point in time, placing the
*sv?tantrya-advaita-v?da* or *pratyabhij??-dar?ana* between the Vai??ava
ved?nta and Ny?ya-vai?e?ika. Even Madhus?dana Saraswati in his commentary
on the *?ivamahimn?stotra* places *sv?tantrya-advaita-v?da* somewhere
between Ny?ya-vai?e?ika and S??khya-yoga. According to them, there ought to
have been only one advaita, and that was Advaita-ved?nta. This is what is
being rhetorically repeated now where all non-dualisms are seen as leading
towards "Kashmir ?aivism" and this is probably what the gentleman in the
Marathi discussion group is doing.
I would rather like to believe that J??ne?vara's non-dualism was "his"
non-dualism influenced by (as you rightly pointed out) by the active N?tha
practicing cults etc. of that time in what is today's Maharashtra. After
all, the non-dual Krama ideas were not confined to Kashmir alone. Even
though I am not completely sure, but at a point in time I thought this
association of J??ne?vara and Kashmir ?aivism was initiated by Dilip Citre
in his English translation of the *Anubhav?m?ta* (Sahitya Academi, 1996),
but the concocted narrative sounds even older. If you read Citre's
introduction, he says "I had begun to realize that the seed of
Anubhavamruta was to be found in Vasugupta/Kallata's Spandakarikas and
Shivasutras and/or to the tradition attributed to Gorakhanatha who in turn
could have been influenced by Kashmir Shaiva doctrines." (p. 7). He further
adds, "I believe that Anubhavamruta is, to a large extent, Jnanadeva's
'philosophical' response to the key texts of Kashmir Shaivism, in
particular, the Shivasutras and the Spandakarikas and the later
commentaries on these. In my view, therefore, the Kashmir Shaivagama texts
and commentaries are essential background reading to determine contextually
the significance of Anubhavamruta" (p. 7-8).
In this light, in the recent past, there have been many attempts of writing
or translating the ?Kashmir ?aivism? works into Marathi. For instance, to
cite only one author, the Marathi translations of the *Tantrava?adh?nik?*
(1997), the *?ivas?tras* (2004), the *Tantr?loka* (Chapter first)
(2005), *Spanda
??stra* (2001), *Mah?rthama?jar?* (2003), and many more texts by Keshav
Ramchandra Joshi who seems to seamlessly interpret and connect everything
with something called Siddha Yoga that in my understanding is the
20th-century construction that seeks legitimacy from some or many of these
archaic Sanskrit texts of Kashmiri origin.
I do not think J??ne?vara, as original as he is in himself, should be
forcefully converted to some ?Kashmir Shaivism?. And I would be happy if
some learned scholars of this list have an opinion on this.
Mrinal
*Mrinal Kaul*, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor - Manipal Centre for Humanities (MCH)
Coordinator - Centre for Religious Studies (CRS)
Dr TMA Pai Planetarium Complex
Alevoor Road, Manipal (Udupi) 576 104
Karnataka, INDIA
Tel +91-820-29-23567 Extn: 23567
https://mrinalkaul.academia.edu/
email: mrinal.kaul@ <mrinal.kaul at manipal.edu>stx.oxon.org
On Thu, 3 Sep 2020 at 07:09, Madhav Deshpande <mmdesh at umich.edu> wrote:
