[INDOLOGY] Publication Announcement
Rather than entering into a discourse on didactic, pedagogical and economic
reasons, and before such demands turn into a binding questionnaire for
publication announcements ? however modest they might be ?, let me just
make the statement that one can occasionally take decisions based solely on
practical considerations for the benefit of the Sanskrit neophyte.
First of all, the package of three volumes aims primarily at a German
speaking readership (?although for linguistic reasons probably only of
interest to a small percentage of list subscribers?). Moreover, as far as
Kielhorn is concerned, his work is not a "primer" as incorrectly claimed,
but a structured, complete grammar of classical Sanskrit.
In contrast, B?hler is a didactically arranged basic course, ?a primer?
that draws entirely on Kielhorn's work in terms of subject matter and
paradigms. In the present new edition of B?hler, reference is therefore
consistently made to the corresponding paragraphs in Kielhorn?s grammar to
ensure a constant overview of the grammatical structure of the Sanskrit
language.
Finally, the "Third Book of Sanskrit" contains only Sanskrit texts, whereas
the glossary by Eugen Hultzsch is again in German.
So much for the explanation of the choice of language for these three books
aimed at the German language market.
The German version of 1888 (revised by Kielhorn) corresponds to the 3rd
edition of the English version (also 1888). This one represents the latest
state of the art, so to speak. It is however not the first reprint of
Kielhorn?s. Even though electronic files are available today, everyone
should be allowed to decide for themselves whether a downloadable PDF
version is considered a suitable equivalent.
Now a note on the anglophone editions: As already mentioned, Kielhorn is
available in English as a revised 3rd edition. The same applies cum grano
salis to B?hler in the shape of an English adaptation by Edward Delavan
Perry, ?A Sanskrit Primer? (several editions between 1885 and 1936).
Finally, there is an English glossary for the "Third Book of Sanskrit" by
Vi??u Para?ur?m ??str? Pa??it.
It is up to others to reprint their works in English if they are deemed
suitable.
Regards,
WS
Am Fr., 30. Okt. 2020 um 17:06 Uhr schrieb Jan E.M. Houben <
jemhouben at gmail.com>:
