[INDOLOGY] Mosquitoes
Dear James, et al.,
The idea of disease had not yet included the discovery of germs (there were occasional theories from Greece, Rome, Medieval Islamic medicine about infectious ?seeds? that could be transmitted by contact or through the air, but identifying actual germs awaited the 19th c in the west), so in ancient and medieval India the belief was that disease was more likely to be caused by an imbalance of the three do?as, demons, bad hygiene, or immodest lifestyle, but not by germ transmission. So mosquitos and snakes ? one causing temporary discomfort, and the other more dangerous because of lethal venom ? were not considered disease transmitters per se.
There is a stock phrase repeated numerous times in Buddhist texts, initially in the Nik?yas as examples of painful adversities, and in later texts, such as Asa?ga?s Abhidharmasamuccaya, with a slightly expanded list, as examples of r?pic impingement.
One such example from the Majjhima-nik?ya:
Sabb?sava Sutta [Skt: Sarva-?srava] (MN 2 / MN i 6 ) 
Katame ca, bhikkhave, ?sav? pa?isevan? pah?tabb?? Idha, bhikkhave, bhikkhu pa?isa?kh? yoniso c?vara? pa?isevati: ?y?vadeva s?tassa pa?igh?t?ya, u?hassa pa?igh?t?ya, ?a?samakasav?t?tapasar?sapasamphass?na? pa?igh?t?ya, y?vadeva hirikop?nappa?icch?danattha??. 
And what are the defilements that should be given up by using?  Take a mendicant who, reflecting properly, makes use of robes:  ?Only for the sake of warding off cold and heat; for warding off the touch of flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles; and for covering up the private parts.? 
(Bhikkhu Sujato tr.)
?What taints, bhikkhus, should be abandoned by using? Here a bhikkhu, reflecting wisely, uses the robe only for protection from cold, for protection from heat, for protection from contact with gadflies, mosquitoes, wind, the sun, and creeping things, and only for the purpose of concealing the private parts.
(Bhikkhu Bodhi tr.)
And what, monks, are the cankers to be got rid of by use? (1) In this teaching, monks, a monk, wisely reflective, uses a robe simply for warding off the cold, for warding off the heat, for warding off the touch of gadfly, mosquito, wind and sun, creeping things, simply for the sake of covering his nakedness.
(I.B. Horner tr.)
[?]
Pa?isa?kh? yoniso sen?sana? pa?isevati: ?y?vadeva s?tassa pa?igh?t?ya, u?hassa pa?igh?t?ya, ?a?samakasav?t?tapasar?sapasamphass?na? pa?igh?t?ya, y?vadeva utuparissayavinodanapa?isall?n?r?mattha??. 
Reflecting properly, they make use of lodgings:  ?Only for the sake of warding off cold and heat; for warding off the touch of flies, mosquitoes, wind, sun, and reptiles; to shelter from harsh weather and to enjoy retreat.? 
(Sujato)
==
But one is expected to tolerate these sorts of pains and adversities, so they are not thinking of them as occasions for contracting lethal diseases ? the snakes have venom, which of course they acknowledge, but the texts also advocate tolerating snake bites as well.
==
Asa?ga, Abhidharmasamuccaya:
Gokhale ed., p. 2:
ki?lak?a?a? r?pam / r?pa?a lak?a?a? r?pam / tad dvividham / spar?ena r?pa?a? prade?ena r?pa?a? ca / spar?ena r?pa?a? katamat / karacara?ap????a?asrada??a??to??ak?utpip?s?ma?akada??asarpav??cik?d?n?? spar?ena vy?b?dhanam / prade?ena r?pa?a? katamat / de?ena r?pa?a mida? ceda? ca r?pameva? caiva? ca r?pamiti pra?ihit?pra?ihitacetovitarke?a pratibimbacitr?k?rat? // 
What is the characteristic (laksana) of matter? Change is the characteristic of matter. It has two forms: change in contact and change in localization. What is change in contact? It is the alteration caused by contact by a hand, a foot, a stone, a weapon, a stick, cold, heat, hunger, thirst, a mosquito, a gadfly, a snake, a scorpion, etc. What is change in localization? It is the imagination of form, through determined or undetermined mental conception, as such and such or some such other form. 
(W. Boin-Webb?s English tr. of W. Rahula?s French tr.).
==
The Su?ruta-sa?hit? describes five types of mosquitos, but only considers them to cause local pain, not transmit disease, though the bite of one of the five is considered similar to the bite of lethal insects).
