[INDOLOGY] Mosquitoes
Hi  Jim,
I take it you?re looking for premodern references of the sort that Dan?s email provides, copied below. But NB his correct suggestion that none of these link disease transmission to mosquitoes or other insects. That only came following Sir Patrick Manson?s work in China in the late 1870s on mosquitoes as a vector for human filariasis,  Charles Finlay?s early work on yellow fever in Cuba starting in 1881 ? which initially was widely ridiculed ? and finally Ronald Ross?s work in the Indian Medical Service in the 1890s, which definitively identified the malarial parasite in the gut of mosquitoes transmitting the disease. 
For that work in 1902 Ross received the second Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine. A great account by Ross of his work on mosquitoes and malaria ? and his life in India as well, where he was born ? is found in his massive (and wonderfully eccentric) 1923 memoirs, which you can find scanned in online here:  https://tinyurl.com/yxo7taao
The strictly medical literature on mosquitoes, India, and many of these other diseases for obvious reasons is massive. A PubMed key word search I made this morning on India, mosquitoes, and malaria ? leaving aside all other mosquito-transmitted viruses now known (e.g., Zika, West Nile virus, Chikungunya virus, dengue, yellow fever, etc.) ? came up with over 4000 titles, going back to an 1899 article in the Indian Medical Gazette entitled ?The Extermination of Mosquitoes,? which refers to Ross?s revolutionary work.
This paper and many other early papers on related themes are now scanned in and available at PubMed. Google scholar, which covers papers in non-medical journals as well, will give many thousands more.
In the Victorian era ? due to the obvious importance of yellow fever and malaria to the Empire ? discussions of malaria, in later periods mosquitoes, and related political issues were a recurrent theme in British literature.  For a fine account of that literature, see Jessica Howell?s new book from Cambridge U. Press (2019), Malaria and Victorian Fictions of Empire. 
Her substantial bibliography starts on p. 202. That, and a good bit of her book as a whole, is available via Amazon. Go to https://tinyurl.com/yybqhfjf <https://tinyurl.com/yybqhfjf>
Cheers,
Steve
The Systems Biology Group
Palo Alto, CA
