From Rupert.Gethin at bristol.ac.uk  Tue Oct 27 20:13:40 2020
From: Rupert.Gethin at bristol.ac.uk (Rupert Gethin)
Date: Tue, 27 Oct 20 20:13:40 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Sad News
In-Reply-To: <AA35D4EA-E3AB-4C7B-A44D-4EC8F887C612@googlemail.com>
Message-ID: <6E42E2E6-A4FD-448B-80F2-313640B67901@bristol.ac.uk>

Dear James and Simon,

Sad news indeed. I would also like to thank you for your very nice tribute to Will. I cannot claim to have known him well, but I have very fond memories of my meetings and conversations with him over the years, when we had occasion to meet in Bristol or Cardiff. And last week I was using his translation of the Gita with students and extolling the virtues of his wonderfully helpful Dictionary of Hinduism. He wore his scholarship very modestly.

With best wishes,

Rupert
--
Rupert Gethin
Professor of Buddhist Studies
University of Bristol
Department of Religion and Theology
3 Woodland Road ? Bristol BS8 1TB ? UK


On 27 Oct 2020, at 18:29, James Hegarty via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:

Dear Colleagues,

We are very sad to report the death of Will Johnson. Will?s work as a translator of Sanskrit, and as a scholar of Hindu and Jain traditions, speaks for itself. However, his extraordinary personal qualities were known only to those that had the pleasure and privilege of his company. We were fortunate to be in this category. All who knew him valued his innate gentleness, his infectious laugh and his delightful combination of deep generosity to others with a certain arch humour and a wryly detached demeanour. For young academics, as we were when we joined Cardiff University, Will?s attitude was a tonic; he managed to communicate complete commitment to his discipline and his students while seeming to have his foundations somehow elsewhere, and in firmer ground.

It is hard not to think that this ground was his artistic nature. Will was a poet first and a scholar second. This did not detract from the quality of his scholarship ? far from it. Yet he seemed at his fullest and most complete when he was creating something other than scholarship (in its most obvious sense). This was true of his poetry (and he published a very powerful volume, My Speaking Tongue, during his retirement in the face of the Motor Neurone Disease that eventually took his life), of the adaptations ? by him or others ? of his translations of Sanskrit plays, or his translations themselves. It was as if impeccable scholarship was, in the face of all this, a happy knack.

In closing, his own advice, given in poetry, seems most apposite:

?But if you?ll forgive
the indiscretion, take this note:
work from the uncut text alone, try not
to corpse until your lines run dry, exit
with a flourish to the vacant gods,
and only then bring up the lamps and board
the train for Dublin, Moscow, and
beyond this gauze, the endless, moonlit steppe.

We include a brief overview of his career drawn from our tribute article to Will on the occasion of his retirement some years ago.

Our thoughts and best wishes go to Will?s wonderful family.

James Hegarty and Simon Brodbeck

Will Johnson: Indologist and Translator

