[INDOLOGY] Translations
As I recall, too, there is a translation or paraphrase of the Ny?yaprave?a attr. Dign?ga that is found in the Manimekhalai.
Matthew Kapstein
Directeur d'?tudes, ?m?rite
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Paris
Numata Visiting Professor of Buddhist Studies,
The University of Chicago
Sent: Sunday, November 29, 2020 1:07 PM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Translations
 In the 11th century, a scholar named ?r?dhara selected passages from Var?hamihira?s Laghuj?takam, his B?hajj?takam, and Kaly??avarman?s S?r?vali and translated them into new Kannada to create a text titled the J?takatilaka?. I suppose the question here is less what constitutes ?translation? and more what constitutes a ?text.? There are a number of other authors from the period who translate long passages from Sanskrit sciences, especially the works of Var?hamihira, into Kannada.
Elaine Fisher at Stanford is working on a project right now on 16th and 17th-century translations within the V?ra?aiva community. I am unsure if she has published the materials yet, but she has many.
All the best,
Eric
On Sun, Nov 29, 2020 at 1:34 PM Madhav Deshpande via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
There is also a Marathi Abhanga rendering of the Bhagavadg?t? attributed to Tuk?r?m.  The 13th Century J??ne?var? is more of a Marathi verse commentary on the Bhagavadg?t? rather than a translation.  The 19th century is the real beginning of Marathi translations of Sanskrit and English works on a large scale.  This coincides with the emergence of printing and publishing.
Madhav M. Deshpande
Professor Emeritus, Sanskrit and Linguistics
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA
Senior Fellow, Oxford Center for Hindu Studies
Adjunct Professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bangalore, India
[Residence: Campbell, California, USA]
On Sun, Nov 29, 2020 at 9:48 AM Jonathan Peterson via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Dear Patrick,
Marathi renderings of Bhart?hari?s three ?atakas and Jagann?tha's Ga?g?lahar? are attributed to the seventeenth-century poet V?mana Pa??it. There?s some debate among scholars of Marathi literature as to whether there were two V?manas, but either way, those texts were adapted into Marathi in the seventeenth century. The question of what constitutes a translation is worth asking in this case, as these 'translations? are refracted through V?mana?s unique understanding of bhakti and Advaita Ved?nta.
Best wishes,
Jonathan Peterson
University of Toronto
On Nov 29, 2020, at 9:00 AM, indology-request at list.indology.info<mailto:indology-request at list.indology.info> wrote:
Translations
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info<mailto:indology-owner at list.indology.info> (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info<mailto:indology-owner at list.indology.info> (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
Eric Gurevitch
PhD Candidate, South Asian Languages and Civilizations and
Committee on Conceptual and Historical Studies of Science
University of Chicago
gurevitch at uchicago.edu<mailto:gurevitch at uchicago.edu>
