[INDOLOGY] sources for the idea that reincarnation is a semi-random process?
 I agree, Brendan, that in the future science may be more open. In fact, it is slowly happening right now.
Like you, I also like to use the example of Michael Faraday. When he first proposed the idea of invisible magnetic fields that extend throughout space, he was mocked by the Royal Society for his "metaphysics". It took Maxwell's brilliant mathematics, and probably his being a member of the nobility didn't hurt, to get them to come around.
These days, of course, some physicists consider fields to be more real than "matter".
Best,
Dean
    On Thursday, November 19, 2020, 9:21:32 AM GMT+5:30, Brendan S. Gillon, Prof. <brendan.gillon at mcgill.ca> wrote:  
 I would like to add my two cents, for what it is worth, to this interesting question. I agree with Dean Anderson that existing conceptions of the physical might prejudice how the view that there is rebirth can be empirically tested. But it is also useful to bear in mind that what is taken to be physical and material has changed over time. The void, for example, which is the antithesis of the material,in at least one acceptation of the word, was ruled out as an impossibility by Aristotelians, and Cartesians, eventually being adopted as part of mainstream science. Moreover, no one's conceptionof the physical in the 16th century would have included radiation as it was conceived of in the 19th century by Faraday and Maxwell; and though it is physical, it is not material. It could very well be that 50 years from now our conception of the physical might include what we now refer to as the mental. In short, it could turn out that, if the question is treated empirically, the answer might end up altering what it is that we count as physicaland material.?
Best wishes,Brendan
Brendan S. Gillon??????????????????????????? email: brendan.gillon at mcgill.ca
Department of Linguistics
McGill University???????????????????????????? tel.:? 001 514 398 4868 
1085, Avenue Docteur-Penfield
Montreal, Quebec?????????????????????????? fax.:? 001 514 398 7088 
H3A 1A7? CANADA
webpage: http://webpages.mcgill.ca/staff/group3/bgillo/web/From: INDOLOGY <indology-bounces at list.indology.info> on behalf of Dean Michael Anderson via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info>
Sent: November 18, 2020 10:24 PM
Re: [INDOLOGY] sources for the idea that reincarnation is a semi-random process??Dominik Wujastyk via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:So your proposal for examining reincarnation scientifically could be restated as a call to consider it as an empirical question, rather than as a formal or philosophical one.? That means there should be some falsifiable criteria available for testing conjectures.
My response: I see the main objection would be the current scientific paradigm of materialism or physicalism which assumes that only material phenomena are real. Mental states, which would be how past or inter-life experiences would tend to be viewed, are considered to be epiphenomena which have no inherent reality but are mere outgrowths of physical brain functioning.
As you rightly pointed out, Dominik, this area is currently considered a metaphysical question not a "scientific" one.
There might be approaches which could address such issues but most scientists are simply not interested. Many also feel that expressing an interest in this could hurt their scientific career.
I'd be interested in other's thoughts about this.
Best,
Dean
On Wednesday, November 18, 2020, 8:38:17 PM GMT+5:30, Dominik Wujastyk via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
It's interesting (to me) to think about this issue you raise, James, of taking reincarnation "as something that might be 'real' in the western scientifically-oriented sense".? First, let's get rid of "western".? Everybody does science and has done for a couple of centuries, so it's been global for a long time and I don't think you really mean to make a statement about historical origins.? Moving on, the idea of equating reality with scientific investigation is, at heart, a question about pram??as, I think.? In his famous essay, ?The Purpose of Philosophy?, Isaiah Berlin categorizes questions according to the means used to answer them.? Questions may be solved by empirical means, by formal means (e.g., mathematics or chess).? But the third category is questions about which we are uncertain about how to answer them.? Those are philosophical questions (I would say, metaphysical questions).?? So your proposal for examining reincarnation scientifically could be restated as a call to consider it as an empirical question, rather than as a formal or philosophical one.? That means there should be some falsifiable criteria available for testing conjectures.
Best,Dominik
On Wed, 18 Nov 2020 at 02:32, James Hartzell via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Getting back to Dean's original question on whether rebirth is karma-deterministic or not:In cognitive neuroscience prediction, randomness, probability, are all major research topics -- there are many aspects of the data we can study about the mind and brain that involve these ideas, including ranging from something sometimes called 'ballistic' in the sense of basically automatic and highly predictable, to other functionality that appears nearly random, freedom of choice, etc. There's a lot of mathematical modeling involved (aka computational neuroscience).If we take the idea of reincarnation seriously, i.e., not just as a cultural artefact, but something that might be 'real' in the western scientifically-oriented sense (i.e, just as 'real' as the Indo-Tibetan traditions consider it), then all sorts of interesting research questions come up, and Dean's original question would be central to these.? A couple of such questions might be: a) Could an incarnating person be somehow capable of choosing parents/family specifically, or would there inevitably be a certain degree of randomness or unpredictability involved, perhaps mathematically akin to modeling and predicting the weather?? b) What might be the criteria for an incarnator to be capable of choice, or, rather be deterministically/ballistically driven by prior karma?
On Tue, Nov 17, 2020 at 8:24 PM Eli Franco <franco at uni-leipzig.de> wrote:
Dear Matthew,
It all goes back to the Abhidharmakosabhasya. See AKBh on AK 3.15ab,? 
but Pradhan's edition has a lacuna here. Therefore:
dLVP, vol. 3, p. 50.
Best wishes,
Eli
Zitat von Matthew Kapstein via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info>:
Prof. Dr. Eli Franco
Institut f?r Indologie und Zentralasienwissenschaften
Schillerstr. 6
04109 Leipzig
Ph. +49 341 9737 121, 9737 120 (dept. office)
Fax +49 341 9737 148
James Hartzell, PhD (2x) 
Donostia-San Sebati?n, Spain
Center for Mind/Brain Sciences (CIMeC), The University of Trento, Italy
Center for Buddhist Studies, Columbia University, USA
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info(where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
