[INDOLOGY] sources for the idea that reincarnation is a semi-random process?
I seem to recall aspects of these questions discussed from a phenomenological perspective in Alexander Piatagorsky,
The Buddhist Philosophy of Thought (1984).
In any case, some Tibetan traditions do attribute to very advanced adepts the ability to choose their rebirth destinies, and base this to some extent on the accounts, e.g., in the Lalitavistara, of the Buddha-to-be selecting the conditions - time, place, parents, etc. - of his birth in Kapilavastu.
However, because one cannot determine the actions of others, it is generally admitted that there can be no perfect control of the process. The story of the rebirth of the third Karmapa hierarch following the botched rebirth of his predecessor is often cited. For a recent discussion, see Ruth Gamble, Reincarnation in Tibetan Buddhism, ch. 5.
Matthew Kapstein
Directeur d'?tudes, ?m?rite
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Paris
Numata Visiting Professor of Buddhist Studies,
The University of Chicago
Sent: Wednesday, November 18, 2020 3:31 AM
Re: [INDOLOGY] sources for the idea that reincarnation is a semi-random process?
Getting back to Dean's original question on whether rebirth is karma-deterministic or not:
In cognitive neuroscience prediction, randomness, probability, are all major research topics -- there are many aspects of the data we can study about the mind and brain that involve these ideas, including ranging from something sometimes called 'ballistic' in the sense of basically automatic and highly predictable, to other functionality that appears nearly random, freedom of choice, etc. There's a lot of mathematical modeling involved (aka computational neuroscience).
If we take the idea of reincarnation seriously, i.e., not just as a cultural artefact, but something that might be 'real' in the western scientifically-oriented sense (i.e, just as 'real' as the Indo-Tibetan traditions consider it), then all sorts of interesting research questions come up, and Dean's original question would be central to these.  A couple of such questions might be: a) Could an incarnating person be somehow capable of choosing parents/family specifically, or would there inevitably be a certain degree of randomness or unpredictability involved, perhaps mathematically akin to modeling and predicting the weather?  b) What might be the criteria for an incarnator to be capable of choice, or, rather be deterministically/ballistically driven by prior karma?
On Tue, Nov 17, 2020 at 8:24 PM Eli Franco <franco at uni-leipzig.de<mailto:franco at uni-leipzig.de>> wrote:
Dear Matthew,
It all goes back to the Abhidharmakosabhasya. See AKBh on AK 3.15ab,
but Pradhan's edition has a lacuna here. Therefore:
dLVP, vol. 3, p. 50.
Best wishes,
Eli
Zitat von Matthew Kapstein via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>>:
Prof. Dr. Eli Franco
Institut f?r Indologie und Zentralasienwissenschaften
Schillerstr. 6
04109 Leipzig
Ph. +49 341 9737 121, 9737 120 (dept. office)
Fax +49 341 9737 148
James Hartzell, PhD (2x)
Donostia-San Sebati?n, Spain
Center for Mind/Brain Sciences (CIMeC), The University of Trento, Italy
Center for Buddhist Studies, Columbia University, USA
