=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_vekura=C3=B1ja,_Turner's_article?=
Thank you for these illuminating remarks.
works) treat Mauleselin as applying to she-mule as well as she-hinny, being
a female form of Maulesel (m. male or hinny).
As far as I can see, in the field of zoology, natural sciences, and in any
case among the agricultural classes, a precise distinction has always been
made between mule and hinny.
This applies without exception to the standard encyclopaedias of the 19th
century (examples will follow shortly) as well as to modern scientific
research literature.
In contrast, it can be assumed that the difference was not so sharply seen
or even blurred among the representatives of the humanities, as the many
examples show we have already witnessed among - in our case - mostly
Indologists (however not without notable exceptions).
In modern standard German, too, a ?Maulesel? ? unless it designates its
species ? is a male hinny, a ?Mauleselin? a female hinny.
Compared with this, a ?Maultier? is a male mule (at the same time the
species as such), a ?Maultierweibchen? a female mule.
Here is an excerpt from a classic among scientific encyclopaedias :
Maultier (Equus mulus)
Maulesel (Equus hinnus)
?Gerade bei den durch Esel beschlagenen Pferdestuten oder umgekehrt bei den
durch Pferde belegten Eselinnen kommen Fehlgeburten am h?ufigsten vor.?
[?] Noch in der neuesten Zeit ist wiederholt behauptet worden, dass
Maultier oder Maulesel unfruchtbar seien. Dies ist jedoch nicht immer der
Fall. Schon seit den ?ltesten Zeiten sind Beispiele bekannt, dass die
Blendlinge zwischen Esel und Pferd wiederum Junge erzeugten; weil man aber
solch ein ungew?hnliches Geschehnis als ein Hexenwerk oder als ein
unheildrohendes Ereignis betrachtete [?] Ein anderes, von Pferd und
Maultierstute erzeugtes Fohlen wurde in Schottland geworfen, aber von den
biederen Landleuten, welche das Tier f?r ein Ungeheuer erkl?rten, sofort
get?tet.
[Mule (Equus mulus)
Mule (Equus hinnus)
Miscarriages are most common among mares mated with donkeys or vice versa
among female donkeys mated with horses.
Even in recent times it has been repeatedly claimed that mules or hinnies
are infertile. However, this is not always the case. Examples have been
known since ancient times that the interbreeding of donkey and horse
produced offspring, but [...] such an unusual event was considered to be
witchcraft or a threat of mischief [...] Another foal produced by horse and
mule mare was dropped in Scotland, but immediately killed by the simple
country folk who declared the animal a monster.]
(Brehms Tierleben. Die S?ugetiere. Dritter Band. 3. Auflage. (1900):
Maultier und Maulesel.pp. 75 ? 79)).
[The following excerpt from another work is of some significance in
answering the question of what can happen when a she-donkey becomes
pregnant.
F?r die Zucht von Mauleseln muss bei der Auswahl des Deckhengstes unbedingt
auf die Gr??e der Eselstute R?cksicht genommen werden. F?r eine Eselstute
kann es lebensgef?hrlich werden, wenn sie von einem zu gro?en Pferdehengst
gedeckt wird und sie versucht, diese Frucht auszutragen. Wohl sagt man im
Volksmund, die Frucht passe sich dem K?rper an, und doch ist es schon
vorgekommen, dass die wachsende Frucht f?r die Stute zu gro? wurde, so dass
Stute und Fohlen ein kl?gliches Ende nahmen. (Gugelberg, Helene von;
B?hler, Cordula: Alles ?ber Maultiere. Cham 1994: pp. 88f.)
["For the breeding of hinnies, it is essential to consider the size of the
donkey mare when choosing a stallion. For a jenny mare it can be
life-threatening if she is mated to a stallion who is too large and she has
to carry this fruit. It is said that the embryo adapts to the body, but it
has happened that the growing embryo has become too large for the jenny, so
that the jenny and foal came to a miserable end."]
If these dimensions (stallion : jenny) are applied to the mating of the
product of the first one, i.e. the mating of a she-hinny, who is even
smaller than her jenny mother, to a stallion (stallion : she-hinny), it can
be concluded that her risk of dying from the oversize of her foetus is even
greater than that of her mother, the jenny.
Randomly collected:
Against the dictionary entries as quoted by Roland Steiner, Van Buitenen
translates* khar?v?tsalya* (MBh) as ?a she-ass?s love? (p. 435).
Wackernagel AiGr II,2 (p. 370) has ?Maulesel?, and only ?Maulesel? for
*a?vatara*/*?*. He points to a probable etymological relationship with
*a?v?-star?* ?equa sterilis? (= ?a barren mare?), see p. 604. In this
context of *(*a*)*star*-, cp. also Persian *astar* = a ?Maulesel? (?hinny?)
in Salemann?s ?Persische Grammatik? (1889: p. 7), but a ?mule? (?Maultier?)
in Steingass? Persian dictionary.
For a correct translation of *a?vatar?* by she-hinny? (?Mauleselin?), cp.
Harry Falk, Bruderschaft p. 95f (n. 307):
?Weg f?hren wir deinen Zorn, wie den Embryo aus der Mauleselin?.
The text runs as follows (cited without accentuation):
*vi te krodham nay?masi garbham a?vatary? iva* (?pastamb?yamantrap??ha
II.22.2)
(Ed. Winternitz, Mantrap??ha of the ?pastambins. Oxford 1897).
Let me add an important remark made by Jayar?ma in his commentary on a
parallel of the above passage in *P?raskarag?hyas?tra* 13.3.5:
*yath? a?vatar? garbhapu??im asaham?n? am?rge?a mu?cant?, tath?*.
(Ed. M. G. Bakre, Bombay 1927: p. 393).
*garbhapu??i* clearly refers to the oversize of the embryo, which the
she-hinny cannot bear and which she loses accordingly in/on a bad way.
Hinnology and mulology seem to develop into two important branches of
Indology (with two sub-branches of she-hinnology and she-mulology, which
quadruples the matter).
It is likely to become an obsession.
Regards,
WS
Am Mi., 25. Nov. 2020 um 01:00 Uhr schrieb Dan Lusthaus <yogacara at gmail.com
