[INDOLOGY] New Book Announcement: A Garland of Forgotten Goddesses
Dear colleagues,
I am delighted to announce the publication of A Garland of Forgotten Goddesses: Tales of the Feminine Divine from India and Beyond (UC Press).
It is an anthology of primary source stories, each followed with a brief essay describing the historical and social context. I designed it as a teaching resource, but it also highlights cutting-edge research since none of these sources were previously available in translation (and several had never been published in their original languages).  A diverse range of sources includes a passage from the c.6th century Skanda Purana, exciting narratives and visualization guides from early-medieval Tantras, literature from Nepal and Indonesia highlighting women and their relationship with goddesses, local Puranas, songs, and stories translated from modern booklets marketed to pilgrims.
CONTENTS
Preface
Introduction
I Demons and Battle
1. Bhadrak???: Slaying the Demon in the Backwaters ? Noor van Brussel
2. C?mu??i and Uttanaha??i: Sisters of the Mysuru Hills ? Caleb Simmons
3. Kau?ik?: The Virgin Demon-Slayer ? Judit T?rzs?k
4. The Seven Mothers: Origin Tales from Two Early-Medieval Pur??as ? Shaman Hatley
II Miracles and Devotees
5. Svasth?n?: Goddess of One?s Own Place ? Jessica Vantine Birkenholtz
6. Kail? Dev?: The Great Goddess as Local Avatar of Miracles ? R. Jeremy Saul
7. Bahucar? M?t?: She Who Roams Widely ? Darry Dinnell
8. R???rasen?: Hawk Goddess of the Mewar Mountains ? Adam Newman
III Tantras and Magic
9. Rangda in the Calon Arang: A Tale of Magic ? Thomas M. Hunter and Ni Wayan Pasek Ariati
10. Tvarit?: The Swift Goddess ? Michael Slouber
11. K?me?var?: Visualizing the Goddess of Desire ? Anna A. Golovkova
12. Avyapade?y?: Indefinable K?l? ? Olga Serbaeva
Glossary
List of Names (Deities and Characters)
Primary Sources
Bibliography
Excerpts are available at the UC Press<https://www.ucpress.edu/book/9780520375758/a-garland-of-forgotten-goddesses> website and through Amazon<https://www.amazon.com/Garland-Forgotten-Goddesses-Feminine-Divine/dp/0520375750/>, and I have also been highlighting the original artwork commissioned for the book and posting passages from the sources on my blog<https://garudam.info>.
Happy holidays and stay safe,
Michael
Michael Slouber, Ph.D.
Associate Professor, South Asian Studies
Global Humanities and Religions
Western Washington University
