[INDOLOGY] Appropriate meaning of the word"Vigyan"
Mr.David and Nancy Riegle,
Thank you so much for helping me with Franklin Edgerton's 1933 article on Vignana and Gnana.!I was feeling elated as I was going through ShankaraCharya's analysis on Gnana and Vignana.However,as I referred to Buddhist definition of Vignana ( my Nov 13 post) previously , I find VasuBandhu, in his book" VignaptiMatroSiddhi" speaking on Vignana as follows-" Chittam Manam Vigyanam VignoptiScheto Paryaya" which somewhat means that Chitta( I.e.the internal sense organs,or Antaksharan,in Sanskrit, according to Patanjaili's Yog Philosophy), Manam(mind) and Vignana are synonymous terms (Paryaya).
RegardsAlakendu Das.
Sent from RediffmailNG on Android
Sent: Sat, 12 Dec 2020 01:40:51 GMT+0530
Re: [INDOLOGY] Appropriate meaning of the word"Vigyan"
Dear Alakendu Das,
First, may I suggest that you use the International Alphabet of Sanskrit Transliteration for writing Sanskrit words? This is what Indologists are accustomed to. Thus, your vigyan would be written as vij??na.
As you noted in your query of Nov. 13, the meaning of vij??na
 in Buddhist texts somewhat differs from its meaning in Hindu texts. In both cases, the meaning of 
vij??na comes out in juxtaposition with j??na. An article on this by Franklin Edgerton was published in 1933, "J??na&nbsp; and 
vij??na," drawing on Hindu texts. I have scanned my photocopy of it and attached a PDF of the scan.
Best regards,
David ReigleColorado, U.S.A.
On Tue, Dec 8, 2020 at 12:35 AM alakendu das via INDOLOGY &lt;indology at list.indology.info&gt; wrote:
To All,Can anyone kindly enlighten me on true implication of the word "Vigyan"in the light of Indian Philosophy.I am aware of it's implication in Buddhist philosophy . However,I am eager to know it's true meaning in the context of Indian Philosophy .RegardsAlakendu Das&nbsp;
Sent from RediffmailNG on Android
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
