Job advert: Sanskrit lectureship in London; closing date 3 Feb.
See http://www.soas.ac.uk/departments/index.cfm?navid=2722
Vacancy No: 100080
Department of the Languages and Cultures of South Asia
?26,486 - ?30,063 p.a. inclusive of London Allowance
The Department of the Languages and Cultures of South Asia, whose research 
and teaching is based primarily on Bengali, Hindi, Nepali, Panjabi, 
Sanskrit and Urdu, seeks to appoint a research-active Lecturer in Sanskrit 
to contribute to its ambitious programmes.
The successful candidate will be the one best able to make an outstanding 
contribution to studies in Sanskrit language and literature through 
innovative research and enthusiastic teaching.  Knowledge of a second 
South Asian language, preferably Prakrit or Tamil, would be advantageous, 
as would be the ability to attract research funding. The appointed 
lecturer would have the ability to teach the history of Sanskrit 
literature and culture in the context of the modern world and to 
contribute to our broader South Asian programme which already includes 
such subjects as Cinema, Postcolonial Literature, Himalayan Studies, 
Gender Studies and Islam & Politics in Pakistan.  The post commences on 
September 1st 2006.
Prospective candidates seeking further information may contact the Head of 
the Department of the Languages and Cultures of South Asia, Dr Rachel 
Dwyer (racheldwyer at soas.ac.uk)
Annual leave is 30 days per annum plus statutory and Bank Holidays.  USS 
pension scheme is available.
An application form and further particulars can be downloaded from 
www.soas.ac.uk/jobs.  Alternatively, write to the Human Resources 
Department, SOAS, University of London, Thornhaugh Street, Russell Square, 
London, WC1H OXG, fax no: 020 7074 5129 or e-mail: recruitment at soas.ac.uk 
stating your name, address and the vacancy reference number.  CV?s will 
only be accepted when accompanied by an application form.  No agencies.
Closing date:  3 February 2006
SOAS values diversity and aims to be an equal opportunities employer.
