Library of Congress Fellowship: Florence Tan Moeson Fellowship              Program
Florence Tan Moeson Fellowship Program Details
Submitted by tdoan on Mon, 2005-11-07 16:28. Details 
FLORENCE TAN MOESON FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
http://www.lcasianfriends.org/fellowship 
Established through the generosity of Florence Tan Moeson, the Moeson Fellowship of the Asian Division Friends Society (ADFS) at the Library of Congress provides individuals with the opportunity to pursue research on East, Southeast, or South Asia (including the overseas Asian communities), using the unparalleled collections of the Library of Congress in Washington, DC.
APPLICANT ELIGIBILITY
? Graduate and upper-level undergraduate students, independent scholars, community college teachers, researchers without regular teaching appointments, and librarians with a demonstrated need for fellowship support are especially welcome to apply.
? No citizenship requirement.
? Individuals residing within a radius of about 75 miles of the Library of Congress are eligible to apply for fellowships that cover local travel, parking, meals, photocopying and other research-related expenses but not overnight accommodations.
? Non-U.S. citizens will be offered advice in obtaining the appropriate visa.
TENURE
? A minimum of five (5) full days.
? Research visit may be on any of the days during the calendar year (January 1 - December 31) for which the fellowship is awarded.
STIPEND
? $300 to $2,500, based on demonstrated need.
EXPECTATIONS
? One informal presentation and a 250-500 word written report about the research undertaken at the Library of Congress.
? One digital copy of any final product of this research.
? Acknowledgment of the Moeson Fellowship of the ADFS as well as the assistance provided by the Library of Congress staff in any form of publication.
AWARDS
? Up to 15 awards given annually.
? Awards are announced in December.
? When applicable, award letters will address visa questions and will include a tax residency status and potential U.S. Federal income tax withholding form.
? Non-U.S. citizens and permanent residents who do not have a U.S. Social Security number must submit a Form W-7 to the Internal Revenue Service in order to obtain an individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN) prior to commencing their fellowship at the Library, regardless of the taxability of their income under this program or exemption under a treaty with the U.S.
? Proof of health insurance coverage during tenure of fellowship in the U.S.
? Transportation and housing will be the responsibility of each fellow.
APPLICATIONS
? Applications must be submitted online.
? Application materials must be submitted in English.
? Research proposal (no longer than 500 words). The proposal should describe which Library of Congress collections and/or materials are expected to be used. The use of collections in the Asian Division is preferred.
? Curriculum vitae (no longer than 500 words).
? Estimated budget statement that includes an indication of financial need and the availability of funding from other sources, where applicable, an indication of financial need.
? Names and contact information of three (3) individuals willing to provide letters of reference.
APPLICATION DEADLINE
? January 15, 2006 for 2006
? September 30, 2006 for 2007
? Application should be submitted electronically.
CONTACT INFORMATION
Anchi Hoh, Ph.D.
Co-Chair, Florence Tan Moeson Fellowship Program
Asian Division Friends Society
The Library of Congress
101 Independence Avenue, SE
Washington, DC 20540-4820
Email: adia at loc.gov 
The award of each fellowship will be subject to the regulations of the Library of Congress.
