between Ferenc and the organisers. From what we have been presented with 
so far, there appear to be some divergent perceptions regarding the 
amount of information for the rejection that was or was not communicated 
to Ferenc Rusza, but this is really a matter on which discussion in a 
public forum like this cannot help any further.
With regards to the content of the Nyaya abstract, however, I have a few 
reading recommendations that might also be of interest to other 
list-subscribers, and I am therefore posting this to the list. A 
relatively recent volume on "The role of the example in (dRSTAnta) in 
classical Indian logic", which has come out in Vienna (editors 
Katsura/Steinkellner, Wiener Studien zur Tibetologie und Buddhismuskunde 
58, Vienna 2004), contains several papers on the topic especially of the 
example in Buddhist and other forms of Indian logic, and also (though 
less directly) on the role of the fourth and fifth of the pa?c?vayav??.
The idea that examples are associated with metatheoretical reflections, 
which Ferenc Rusza also seems to drive at in his abstract, is in this 
volume quite poignantly put forward in Claus Oetke's paper "The Role of 
the Example in Ancient Indian Logic" (pp.175-195). Oetke outlines 
several ways in which examples can be considered as relevant for 
establishing/controlling the regularity of general hypotheses, some of 
which are similar to what Ferenc seems to have in mind. Oetke's paper is 
framed in an approach to Indian logic as sharing significant character 
traits with what is nowadays called "nonmonotonic reasoning" or "default 
reasoning", i.e. reasoning which operates on the assumption of normality 
conditions; this assessment has recently been called into question by 
John Taber [cf. his lengthy article "Is Indian Logic Nonmonotonic?", 
Philosophy East and West 4/2 (2004), 143-170; based on Oetke's "Ancient 
Indian Logic as a theory of non-monotonic reasoning." Journal of Indian 
Philosophy 24 (1996), 447-539. Cf. then again Oetke, "In which sense are 
Indian theories of inference non-monotonic?", Horin 11 (2005), 23-38]. 
The entire discussion contains many valuable ideas for a more 
sophisticated methodological approach to the issue of examples (in my 
opinion, a much more sophisticated approach than the distinction between 
deductive/inductive or extensional/intensional), and it sets the 
standard of reasoning quite high for future work in this area.
There is much more on examples in the abovementioned volume (including, 
among others, an article by Ernst Prets on example and exemplification 
in early Ny?ya and Vai?e?ika that summarily presents the relevant 
textual materials). As far as I know, it represents the current stage of 
scholarship in this area. If Ferenc Rusza has difficulties gaining 
access to any of the materials I have referred to, I'd gladly supply 
some photocopies.
Best regards,
Birgit Kellner
Alex Watson wrote:
