From rhayes at UNM.EDU  Wed Feb  8 17:31:37 2006
From: rhayes at UNM.EDU (Richard P. Hayes)
Date: Wed, 08 Feb 06 10:31:37 -0700
Subject: Summer Seminar in Buddhism, in New Mexico
Message-ID: <161227077401.23782.5568974917012786537.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Bodhi Manda Zen Center and the Philosophy Department at University of
New Mexico are pleased to announce that the 30th annual summer seminar
on Buddhism will be held this year from June 5 to June 16. If any of
you have students who may be interested in attending, please pass the
following information on to them.

This year's featured scholars will be William LaFleur, John McRae and
Harold Roth. Professor LaFleur's lecture series are entitled "Mere
Buddhism"; Professor McRae's, "Seeing through Zen"; and Professor
Roth's, "Taoist Meditation." There will also be presentations by Oshos
trained by Rinzai-ji, the organization founded by Roshi Joshu Sasaki.
(If his health permits, Roshi Sasaki may also attend. Since he turns
99 years of age this year, it cannot be guaranteed that his health
will permit his participation.)

It is possible to take the two-week seminar for academic credit,
conferred by UNM and transferable to most other colleges and
universities. By a special arrangement with the University of New
Mexico, no tuition fees are charged for this course. In fact, it costs
LESS to take this seminar for academic credit than it costs to attend as
a non-student. (A non-student is a participant who is not taking the
seminars for academic credit.)

Cost for a student for both weeks is $750
Cost for a non-student for both weeks is $900
Cost for a non-student for one week is $500

Bodhi Manda Zen Center is located in a canyon in the beautiful Jemez
Mountains in central New Mexico. It is located about one hour's drive
northwest of Albuquerque Sunport. The meals are vegetarian. The rooms
are simple but comfortable. On the property there is a natural hot
spring where people can soak to their heart's content.

A typical day includes Zen meditation and chanting in the morning and
three class periods per day (two in the morning and one in the evening).
There are ample opportunities during mealtimes or unscheduled parts of
the day to chat with the lecturers and the Zen monks. The afternoons are
usually unscheduled so that attendees can hike, study, meditate, soak in
the hot springs, walk through the charming village of Jemez Springs or
socialize.

More information on the seminars and on this year's professors can be
found at the website http://www.summerseminar.org , on which one can
also find registration forms and ways to contact human beings who can
answer any questions you may have about the seminars.

-- 
Richard Hayes
Department of Philosophy
University of New Mexico

-- 
Richard Hayes
Department of Philosophy
University of New Mexico




