XXVII Zograph Conference
Dear colleagues,
here is the programm of the XXVII Zograph Conference 
(Traditional Indian Texts: Problems of Interpretation).
May 15-17, St.-Petersburg.
Monday, May 15, 11.00. 
Institute of Oriental Studies, St.Petersburg Branch. Green Hall.
Opening speeches
Yaroslav Vassilkov (Chairman of the Organizing Committee)
Irina Popova (Institute of Oriental Studies, SPb Branch, Director) 
Chairperson: Margarita Vorobyova-Desyatovskaya
Alexei Vigasin (Moscow). On the problem of Ancient Indian chronology.
Svetlana Neveleva (SPb). Concluding stanzas of the Mahabharata: lexics and semantics.
Elena Ostrovskaya, Valery Rudoi (SPb). Vasubandhu's  Encyclopaedia of Abhidharma" as a specimen of Sanskrit literature.
Maxim Rusanov (Moscow). The rural theme in the  Sattasai".
Alexander Zorin (SPb). On the interrelation between Sanskrit and Tibetan texts of the  Hymn to the One Who transcends the Gods" by Shankaraswamin.
Monday, May 15, 14.30. Institute of Oriental Studies, St.Petersburg Branch. 
Green Hall.
Chaiman: Nikita Gurov
Mikhail Bogolyubov (SPb). Omittance of a consonant in order to avoid forming of a  heavy" group of noise consonants in Indo-Iranian.
Vytis Vidunas (Vilnius, Lituania). Orthoepic practice and Ancient Indian phonetics.
Yulia Kokova (SPb). Concepts of society and power in the Bhagavata-purana. 
Andrei Ignatiev (Kaliningrad). The place of the Devibhagavata-purana in the evolution of Shaktism
. 
Semyon Vatman (SPb). Radha and Sophia: an attempt at a historico-cultural parallel.
Tuesday, May 16. 11.00 Peter the Great Museum of Anthropology and 
Ethnography (Kunstkamera), Conference Hall
Chairman: Alexei Vigasin
Victoria Vertogradova (Moscow). Visual representation and textual record: Ancient Indian reliefs and Buddhist verbal texts. 
Dmitri Lelyukhin (Moscow). The king as the ordainer of dharma: Practical aspect of an ideological concept.
Eugenia Kryuchkova (SPb). Some observations on the royal titles of the Indo-Greeks.
Safar-Ali Shomakhmadov (SPb). The Life of the pious emperor Ashoka in Indian and Thai written sources.
Tamara Selivanova (SPb). On the authors of Kashmirian chronicles. 
Tuesday, May 16. 14.30 Peter the Great Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography (Kunstkamera), Conference Hall
Chairman: Vytis Vidunas
Nikita Gurov (SPb). Sanskrit upa-shru- :  to hear" or  to listen (attentively) to"? On a particular Indian mode of fortune-telling.
Yaroslav Vassilkov (SPb). The diver shakes himself: On a specific motive in Epic and Puranic versions of the Varaha-katha.
Elena Uspenskaya (SPb). On specific features of  low caste" people's self- 
consciousness in present-day context.
4. Svetlana Ryzhakova (Moscow). Goddess Tara, her symbolism and modes of worship in Hinduism (with demonstration of video tapes).
Wednesday, May 17. 11.00. European University at St.Petersburg. White Hall.
Chairman: Nikita Gurov.
Elena Brosalina (SPb). Gerasim Lebedev and cultural life of Calcutta in 1790-ies.
Tatyana Skorokhodova (Penza). The interpretation of the Upanishads by Rammohon Roy and Debendronath Tagore. 
Gyuzel Strelkova (Moscow). The hero with no name (On the novels by Hazariprasad Dvivedi).
Tatyana Dubianskaya (Moscow). Early adventure novels in Hindi: the problem of plot and stylistic sources.
Vladimir Shelkovich (SPb). Christian and Hindu-Buddhist temporal patterns in modern literature.
Wednesday, May 17. 14.30. European University at St.Petersburg. White Hall.
Chairpersons: Yaroslav Vassilkov and Andrei Paribok.
1. Andrei Paribok (SPb). Indian philosophical texts: composition as a part of the content.
Dar Zhutayev (Moscow). Mechanics of text-transmission in the schools of early Buddhism.
Eugenia Desnitskaya (SPb). Bhartrihari and Dharmakirti on the possibility of the act of reflexive cognition.
Boris Zagumyonnov (SPb). A term in the context: Problems in the translation of 
Buddhist texts. 
5. Sergei Tawaststjerna (SPb). "&#256;dau v&#257;da &#257;s&#299;t": On the translations of the Bible 
into Sanskrit.
Marcis Gasuns (Riga - Moscow). Technical means for the
classification of roots in Panini's  Dhatupatha".
