>?From Charles Prebish and Damien Keown:

---------- Forwarded message ----------

As the summer approaches, those of us at Journal of Buddhist Ethics Online 
Books would like to announce that our new publication "HINDUISM-THE 
EBOOK," is now available for purchase and classroom adoption from our 
website at www.jbeonlinebooks.org. It was written by HILLARY RODRIGUES, a 
long-time professor at the University of Lethbridge, and recipient of that 
university's "Distinguished Teaching" award.

This revolutionary book combines a brand new 565 page introductory 
textbook with hundreds of embedded links to the best Hindu websites on the 
Internet. It's a great stand-alone reference resource. Readers can go 
back-and-forth between the text and the web with a single mouse-click.

If you're a teacher, You won't any longer have to spend tedious hours 
creating handouts with lists of websites, bibliographies, maps, and the 
like. Nor will your departmental secretary have to send booklists to the 
campus bookstore.

This book will be the only textbook you'll need for your introductory 
course, and it is available online, or by mail order, for the outrageously 
low price of $24.95. Better still, it is portable, so it can go with you 
wherever you go. Keep it as a file on your laptop or desktop, or create a 
CD that travels with you. Your students will appreciate the link to 
"Hinduism Online," a passworded site for students that has self-test 
questions, sample essay questions, and additional resources . . . 
available only to them. As a faculty member, you'll like the special site 
for you on "Hinduism Online," which is currently being developed.

SUMMARY OF THE CONTENTS:

Acknowledgements
Preface

Introduction
Vedic Religion
Karma and Cosmology
Hindu Social Organization and Values
Dharma and the Individual
The Sanskrit Language
Indian Philosophical Schools
The Epics
The Bhagavad Gita and the Rise of Bhakti
Major Hindu Sects
Hindu Deities  and Puranic Mythology
Hindu Art and Worship Rituals
Vedanta
Tantra
Reform and Revitalization
Hinduism Beyond India
Hinduism and the West
Select Themes in Hinduism

Glossary of Deities
Glossary of Place Names
Glossary of People's Names
Glossary of Texts
General Glossary

Our other books, "BUDDHISM-THE EBOOK" and "BUDDHISM-THE AMERICAN 
EXPERIENCE" continue to be available from our website.

We're looking ahead to the future too. JBE ONLINE BOOKS has already 
contracted with established scholars to create additional eBooks for 
personal and classroom use. In the near future "Christianity-The eBook" by 
James R. Adair; "Islam-The eBook" by Wayne Husted; and "World 
Religions-The eBook" by Victoria Urubshurow will be available.  We hope to 
announce a Judaism eBook shortly.

Do visit us at www.jbeonlinebooks.org and try out a sample chapter of 
"Hinduism-The eBook."

Charles Prebish
Damien Keown
-- 

Charles S. Prebish
Professor of Religious Studies
Pennsylvania State University
Religious Studies Program
108 Weaver Building
University Park, Pa. 16802
USA
Voice Mail: 814-865-1121
Fax: 814-863-7840
http://jbe.gold.ac.uk



-------------- next part --------------
An embedded message was scrubbed...
From: unknown sender
Subject: no subject
Date: no date
Size: 6831
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20060518/1e7aaa35/attachment.eml>

