From ajaykrao at UCHICAGO.EDU  Fri Sep  8 18:47:01 2006
From: ajaykrao at UCHICAGO.EDU (ajaykrao at UCHICAGO.EDU)
Date: Fri, 08 Sep 06 13:47:01 -0500
Subject: HIndi position
Message-ID: <161227078285.23782.10819664648504170922.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear colleagues and friends,
Please take note of the following job advertisement.
Thank you,
Ajay.



The South Asian Studies Program at New College, University of
Toronto, invites applications for a teaching-stream position
in Hindi Language at the rank of Lecturer. This is an exciting
opportunity to join an expanding program located within one of
the most progressive and dynamic colleges at the University of
Toronto. 

We would be grateful if you brought this opening to the
attention of your graduate student and postdoctoral community. 

The text of the advertisement follows: 

Starting date July 1, 2007. 

PhD with expertise in South Asia; a record of excellence in 
undergraduate teaching; extensive experience in language
teaching and knowledge of current second-language teaching
methodologies; ability and willingness to teach and direct
courses in introductory and intermediate Hindi language;
native or near-native fluency in Hindi and English. 

Experience in developing and maintaining web-based
instructional resources is a strong asset, as is ability to
teach other South Asian languages such as Tamil, Bengali, or
Urdu. Desire to develop upper level courses in various aspects
of South Asian history, culture, or politics  is expected.
This position is renewable annually for up to four years;
review for promotion to Senior Lecturer may take place in the
fifth year, contingent upon excellence in teaching and
evidence of future pedagogical/professional development.
Salary will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. 

Applications must be received by December 1, 2006. Please send
a letter of application, curriculum vitae, a sample of
teaching materials, student evaluations, three letters of
reference, and a statement of teaching philosophy to Professor
Rick Halpern, Principal, New College,  University of Toronto,
300 Huron Street, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3J6,  CANADA. Please
direct queries to the Principal's Assistant, Ms. Fang  Zhang
<fang.zhang at utoronto.ca> 

The University of Toronto is strongly committed to diversity
within its community and especially welcomes applications from
visible minority group members, women, Aboriginal persons,
persons with disabilities, members of sexual minority groups,
and others who may contribute to further diversification of
ideas. 

The University of Toronto offers the opportunity to teach,
conduct research and live in one of the most diverse cities in
the world. 

All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however,
Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority. 




