job at U. Alberta (Indian History)
New position in Classical Indian Polity and Society, 500 BCE-500 CE:
The Department of History and Classics in the Faculty of Arts, 
University of Alberta, invites applications for the Saroj and Prem 
Singhmar Chair in Classical Indian Polity and Society, 500 BCE-500 CE. 
This is an endowed Chair, the occupant of which will be appointed at 
the rank of Full Professor. Research specialization is open, but the 
candidate should anticipate teaching courses that broadly cover the 
history, ideas, and practices of this period. Competence in Sanskrit 
and at least one modern Indian language (excluding English and Urdu) is 
required, and the ideal candidate will have knowledge of modern Indian 
political life. The successful candidate will have aproven record of 
excellence in teaching and graduate supervision, and a distinguished 
research career. The successful applicant will join a dynamic 
Department with strengths in both history and classics 
(www.uofaweb.ualberta.ca/historyandclassics) and will participate in 
developing a new graduate program in Ancient Civilizations. Equally, 
this position will support the Faculty-wide development of research 
strength in South Asia. The University of Alberta aims to be one of the 
world?s great universities, by transforming learning, leading 
ground-breaking research, and uplifting society through new knowledge, 
leadership, and service. The University plays a key role in the 
educational, business, and cultural life of the province of Alberta and 
Canada as a whole, through the impact of its integrated mandate of 
teaching, research, and community service.  With more than 35,500 
students and 12,000 staff, the University grants almost 7,500 degrees 
annually to graduates of 200 undergraduate and 170 graduate programs. 
Aresearchintensive, medical-doctoral, multi-campus institution, the 
University of Alberta offers a full range of academic and professional 
programs and has designated 26 areas of established and emerging 
research excellence.  Greater Edmonton, with nearly one million 
residents in the city and surrounding communities, offers a unique 
quality of life and economic combination, a beautiful, park-like 
setting on a spectacular river valley, low cost of living, the lowest 
provincial tax regime in the country, affordable housing, and is 
consistently Canada?s fastest growing economy. Edmonton has all the 
attractions of a big city; yet it is clean, safe, and liveable. Health 
care in Greater Edmonton, under the auspices of Capital Health, was 
rated #1 in 2003 by Maclean?s magazine and is ranked in the top three 
percent of North America?s largest cities. Edmonton, the political and 
administrative capital of Alberta and a gateway to the north, boasts 78 
arts and cultural organizations including the Edmonton Symphony 
Orchestra, Edmonton Opera, Citadel Theatre (top-rated in North 
America), and a score of other professional theatre groups. Greater 
Edmonton is Canada?s Festival City, with more than 30 arts and cultural 
festivals taking place each year. Applications, including a curriculum 
vitae, the names of three referees, and sample publications, should be 
sent by mail to:
Dr.Daniel Woolf, Dean of Arts Chair, Selection Committee for Singhmar 
Chair c/o Office of the Dean of Arts Humanities Centre 6-33 University 
of Alberta Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G 2E5
Candidates should also ensure that three letters of reference are sent 
directly by the referees to the above address. Applications received by 
January 15, 2007 will be assured of consideration. Interviews will 
begin as soon thereafter as possible. Salary will be commensurate with 
qualifications and experience. All qualified candidates are encouraged 
to apply; however,Canadians and permanent residents will be given 
priority. If suitable Canadian citizens and permanent residents cannot 
be found, other individuals will be considered. The University of 
Alberta hires on the basis of merit. Weare committed to the principle 
of equity in employment. We welcome diversity and encourage 
applications from all qualified women and men, including persons with 
disabilities, members of visible minorities, and Aboriginal persons. 
Singhmar Chair in Classical Indian Polity and Society (500 BCE - 500 
CE)
<www.careers.ualberta.ca>
Michael Witzel
Department of Sanskrit and Indian Studies, Harvard University
1 Bow Street , 3rd floor, Cambridge MA 02138
1-617-495 3295           Fax: 496 8571
direct line:       496 2990
<http://www.fas.harvard.edu/~witzel/mwpage.htm><
<http://groups.yahoo.com/group/compmyth>
<http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Indo-Eurasian_research/>
< http://users.primushost.com/~india/ejvs/>
