Allopani.sad could sustain an MA thesis.  From the point of 
view of language and of the text?s propositional content (as 
DW helpfully attests in his quotations), it might not be 
very promising, but this doesn?t exhaust its potential or 
interest.  If Christophe?s student has access to Persian or 
to Arabic, the whole question of how such a  text was 
confected in the first place could be profitably studied, 
i.e. how what seems to be its Perso-Arabic lexis gets 
transposed into Sanskrit (whether, f.i., the words ?dhatte? 
or ?mitro mitro? are semantic ?translations? or phonetic 
transpositions from another language).  
This raises the whole question--very much in need of study--
of the multilingual philology (if that?s even the right 
word) of Akbar?s court.  We know at least quite a bit 
bibliographically speaking about the works that Akbar had 
translated into Persian from Sanskrit (the epics, 
certain ?classical? upani.sads, Pa~ncatantra, et mult cet) 
but much less about what works (other than this one) that 
were sponsored as quasi-?translations? into Sanskrit.  Not 
to mention the fact of a putative upani.sad being composed 
by a historical author, if indeed a ?court-poet of Akbar? 
was responsible for it.
Some interesting work on the ?other direction? to this 
translational process that might be of interest is that of 
the Carl Ernest, whose website helpfully gives the draft 
versions of a number of his published studies of the 
reception of yoga works in the wider Islamicate world.  
http://www.unc.edu/%7Ecernst/articles.htm
Finally Kengo?s point about the Nepalese manuscripts (along 
with the fact that I presume that the Adyar edition was 
based on Southern MSS) would seem to indicate that the text 
wasn?t a one-off oddball product of the New Agey theosophy 
of Akbar?s court, but one that attracted a wide and diverse 
readership.
All of this said, I agree with Dominik?s point that ?the 
fact of [the Allopani.sad?s] existence? is perhaps more 
interesting than its contents, but the text could provide a 
point d?appui, rather than the central focus, of some very 
interesting research.
Whitney 
earlier this 
study.  It is short, 
sound to them.
ilala ilale dhatte 
ilala ilale 
varu.no raajaa/ 
punarduriti puna.h 
ilaamilaa.m 
ilala ilaam ilaam 
devaastu.s.ta 
ilelaakabarho 
ilelaakabarho 
akabarho 'smy 
by C Kunhan Raja 
There is a 
India,
the fact of 
the Allopani.sad,
propose except the
reference about an
on "Contribution of Muslims to
literature", who
patronage of
the upani.sad).`
produced on the
(home)
