The Buddha and the Upanishads
Dear Friends (including, I hope, Prof. Gombrich),
Once again, I seem to have been misconstrued as arguing a much stronger position than I meant 
to. My general penchant for enthusiastically arguing unpopular hypotheses may be partially to 
blame; or perhaps it is my unfortunate tendency to intemperence of expression. However it may 
be, this exchange has certainly shaken my naive, youthful sense that--as "Nagasena" put it (in the 
translation of "Henry Clarke Warren")--"when the wise converse, whether they become entangled 
by their opponents' arguments or whether they extricate themselves, whether they or their 
opponents convicted of error, whether their own superiority or that of their opponents is 
established, nothing in all this can make them angry." Apparently, the wise can become angry and 
to the extent that I am responsible for that, I am sorry.
It was not at all my intention to argue that Richard Gombrich is a "crotchety old man with 
outmoded notions." Indeed, for the record, I am a great fan of "Richard Gombrich" (even, one 
might say, of Richard Gombrich himself!), I have indeed read many (though unfortunately not all) 
of his published writings (some even that I have gone to great lengths to track down in obscure 
Festschriften), and I do assign them in my classes, where I and my students read them to great 
profit.
That said, a few comments are in order on Prof. Gombrich's concerns:
That the invocation of the example of "Holocaust deniers" in this context is inflammatory should 
go without saying. That is a straw man: no one is claiming the Holocaust didn't happen and no 
one has claimed that we can only make assertions of things of which we have absolute certainty. I 
would very much concur with Gombrich that the evidence for the Holocaust is stronger than that 
for either Buddhaghosa or Buddha. However (and I'm quite surprised to discover that we may 
differ somewhat here), I personally think that this has important consequences for how we speak, 
write, and reason about those topics. We should be more or less circumspect, depending on how 
solid our evidence is. By the time we get back to centuries before the putative time of Christ, I feel, 
that, given the thin evidentiary record, our circumspection should be profound indeed. Note that 
"circumspection" is not in fact tantamount to "not seeing." It is, as one would expect, "looking 
around."
With all due respect, if what my students really want to know about is the Buddha (rather than, 
say, "the Buddha") they are barking up the wrong tree and should study something else or 
somewhere else (Oxford, perhaps?!).  "Our subject" (sorry, can't resist the scare quotes) is perfectly 
entitled to survive, regardless of what misguided students may or may not want to know. Buddhist 
Studies is not Buddhist Theology that seeks to know about "the Buddha" and what he did or didn't 
