teach. From an historical and cultural perspective, the Buddha has no priority--his priority is only 
relevant from within a normative, theological (or crypto-theological) perspective. We don't assume 
his divinity (or sarvaj?atva), and what he did or didn't teach is rather irrelevant to the historical 
and critical study of Buddhism. He is vastly outnumbered by the millions, if not billions, of people 
who have also spoken about and acted in accord with their own understandings of buddhadharma, 
whether that dharma be sad- or mRSaa-, or something else altogether. While it may be mildly 
interesting in a descriptive/analytic context to determine (to the extent one could) what Gotama 
did or didn't teach or know; its interest pales dramatically in comparison to the long and much 
better documented history of what others thought (or claimed they thought) Gotama taught or 
knew.
Now, the more regrettable angle:
Please see above about "crotchety old men" and let's please do think twice before jumping to 
conclusions about rash, arrogant, and unprofessional young men. I freely admit to being, not only 
Prof. Gombrich's junior, but much his inferior in learning and accomplishment (though not, it may 
seem, in civility). Still, I would expect we might be able to have a calm and reasoned conversation 
in an online forum. And that is, we might recall (pace the equivocation about "public fora"), what 
this is: this is not a refereed journal, but an electronic conversation. Thus, my sense is that 
criticism might be aired in this context based on what is specifically expressed in that forum, 
which was my intent.
For, in fact, I was not criticizing the articles to which Gombrich referred (though that might be a 
worthy project for another occasion).  I was just taking issue with how Gombrich expressed 
himself in his posting. My acknowledgement that I thought Gombrich was well aware of concerns 
such as mine was meant to imply that I thought I might have been misconstruing his thinking on 
the matter (in fact, I still wonder about this!) and was meant as an invitation to generate 
discussion of the issue--which it did, to some extent--not as a condemnation of Gombrich tout 
court.  
Gombrich specifically wrote (to which I was responding): "unless we subscribe to the view that the 
Buddha was omniscient and could therefore respond to texts which would be composed in the 
future, I do not understand how his references to important passages in the BAU etc. can fail to be 
interpreted as showing that they already existed when he preached." In my posting, I merely tried 
(though I apparently did not express myself well) to indicate that there was a perfectly 
reasonable--indeed, more historically responsible--way of understanding how "his" references 
can fail to be interpreted in the way Gombrich suggests is indubitable. That is, one might entertain 
the possibility that they were not "his" at all, that Gotama may not have preached these particular 
passages--a possibility to which I had previously assumed (based upon his published works) that 
Prof. Gombrich would readily accede. That position, it should be further noted, is the beginning of 
a line of inquiry, not the end. But I find it very strange to suggest that that hypothesis itself is 
unentertainable (as Gombrich appeared to in saying he did "not understand how. . .[it] can fail. . .). 
That, I hope it is clear, is what I was responding to--not the articles cited.  
Hence, I hope I may be acquitted of being unprofessional and hypocritical (at least for the reasons 
adduced by Prof. Gombrich).
Most graciously, Prof. Gombrich concludes by observing that:
Since I hope in the foregoing to have cleared myself of the charge of criticizing works I have not 
read, I should probably then thank Prof. Gombrich for the kind invitation to apply for the 
advertised chair of Buddhist Studies at Oxford. I am grateful for the courtesy. However, I am really 
quite happy in my current post; and, what's more, since I understand from my extensive reading 
of the oeuvre of a certain Oxford don-emeritus that "British higher education policy over the last 
twenty years has been an unmitigated catastrophe" and that "management studies is the only field 
at Oxford which is not short of funds," I hope that he may not take it so to heart if I don't take him 
up on his gracious offer.
Zubham astu yuSmaakam,
Christian Wedemeyer
Christian K. Wedemeyer
Assistant Professor of the History of Religions
The University of Chicago Divinity School
1025 East 58th Street
Chicago, Illinois  60637  USA
