From TANTRAPL at ramzes.umcs.lublin.pl  Sat Jan 14 09:51:15 1995
From: TANTRAPL at ramzes.umcs.lublin.pl (Leslaw Borowski)
Date: Sat, 14 Jan 95 10:51:15 +0100
Subject: I do not quite agree with Dr. Wujastyk
Message-ID: <161227018182.23782.989116371878465511.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

First of all I would like to thank all the founding members of 
INDOLOGY for their work. I am a member of the list for only a few 
days but I think I am entitled to say what I think it could be about.
I have some doubts about Dr. Dominik Wujastyk's words: "I started 
INDOLOGY ... So I am entitled do say what I think it is about. If you 
disagree, go start your own group."
1) I would rather like to see the word "please" at the end of the 
citation.
2) I am not quite convinced people who started the list (let alone 
one of them only) have the right to dictate all the rules of the list 
to hundreds of other members.
    (Of course, I dont think Dr. Wujastyk seriously suspects anybody 
wants to stop his expression of views concerning INDOLOGY. I do not 
even think it would be physically possible. Or maybe I am wrong? 
Maybe there are some mechanisms of excluding members from the list?)
    Especially the rules which were not agreed upon from the 
beginning. They should not be as rigid as the fundamental ones, I 
think, unless accepted by the present members of the list. The matter 
touches upon the subject of democracy on the list. I would like to 
know if it is possible (as it looks it is) to organise voting on some 
crucial issues. Maybe some experts would like to give comments on 
the proposal?
    Maybe Dr. Wujastyk would like to submit a draft declaration of 
fundamentals and rules?
3) I imagine such a set of basic statements could and should be 
included in the first information sent to a new member. I think also  
this first information should cover info on how to get addresses of 
asianists and perhaps FAQ (frequent asked questions along with 
answers). It would allow to spare more space in the general forum for 
matter-of-fact discussions.  
    I must add that although I think the monumental (and yet alive) 
INDOLOGY list is bigger than persons who founded it still I am 
enchanted by Dr. Wujastyk energy and (I would say - Polish) 
temperament.
                    Lesl~aw Borowski
                    tantrapl at ramzes.umcs.lublin.pl
PS I hope the INDOLOGY members would forgive me my bad English.



 





