Summer South Asia Language Program at the University of Michigan
South Asian Languages at the University of Michigan, Summer 1995
The Center for South and Southeast Asian Studies and the International 
Institute at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, are planning a 1995 
South Asia Summer Language Program. The South Asian languages now under 
serious consideration include:
	Gujarati		Hindi/Urdu		Marathi
	Punjabi			Sanskrit		Tamil
The particular languages that will be offered as well as the levels of 
instruction provided in each language will depend on adequate 
enrollment.  Sanskrit will be offered only at the beginning level.
Each course offered will be the equivalent of one year of college-level 
instruction and will carry 6 or 8 hours of University of Michigan credit. 
The courses will be taught by University faculty and other experienced 
language teachers. The courses will be conducted during the Universitys 
1995 Summer Half-Term, with classes beginning on June 28 and concluding 
on August 18. The regular University of Michigan tuition will be charged 
to enroll in each language course. The program that is currently under 
consideration is being designed to provide significant scholarship aid to 
students so that the net tuition cost for a course (after the award of a 
partial scholarship) for non-Michigan residents and graduate students 
should be between $1700 and $2000; the cost will be less for 
undergraduate students who are residents of the state of Michigan. 
Students will be responsible for their own room and board, although both 
University and off-campus housing are readily available during the Summer 
Term.
The South Asia Summer Language Program also plans to arrange additional 
extra-curricular activities for students enrolled in language courses. 
These include a film series and special lectures on South Asian history 
and culture.
Application forms are now available. When requesting an application form, 
please indicate which language you are interested in studying and 
approximately what level of instruction would be desirable (e.g., 
beginning with no prior background, beginning with some oral exposure to 
the language, intermediate, or advanced). For additional information and 
to receive the 1995 South Asia Summer Language Program application 
materials, please contact:
South Asia Summer Language Program
130 Lane Hall, University of Michigan
204 S. State Street
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1290.
Phone: 313-764-0352.  Fax: 313-936-2948.  Internet: csseas at umich.edu. 
		        		   Lee Schlesinger,  Program Officer
					   South and Southeast Asian Studies
					   313-747-2082    fax: 313-936-2948
