inofficial e-texts - interested???
Robin Kornman wrote:
So the question becomes how to disseminate among scholars the ongoing
value of such a database, even while it is still a 'work in progress'.
For me, the answer would be to make it available on the internet.
A useful solution that's been used for centuries, but costly,
cumbersome, and quite a burden on the data producers.
Instead of making the entire database available to the world via FTP
as a unified text (a la Monier Williams), why not make it available
for USE by the world as a searchable database? Instead of each scholar
downloading the entire thing, like a new book for his own collection,
why not set up the database on a server that would allow scholars to
connect to and use it to look up specific entries as needed. This
would solve many problems and address at least some of the concerns
that Robin raised:
Yes, but criticism is a good thing. A database like this could only
benefit from the feedback of colleagues. And with an appropriate
disclaimer, indicating that this is a work in progress, the
'unedited' nature of the resource would not be viewed negatively. This
is precisely equivalent to the working papers that physicists and
medical researchers (for example) publishe with great success on the
internet, in order to share the results of their ongoing work, in
order to let others benefit from the process, and in order to derive
benefit from the feedback.
Yes. If you put the whole thing up for downloading as an FTP file,
this would certainly be the case. But if you put it up as an
interactive, searchable database, then people get to use it (or pieces
of it) by looking up specific entries through keyword searching. In
this case, you have not really 'published' the whole thing as a
compiled dictionary, and could still do so later in paper form.
Yes, still a possibility, but again it would only be pieces of it that
could be stolen, rather than the whole thing. That is, no one would be
able to download the entire work, they could only look up particular
entries.
I don't know the specifics of the dictionaries mentioned. But it
certainly should be possible to get past the 'politics' and to garner
the approval of the authors/compilers to add their data to a
globally-accessible electronic database. My experience is that authors
are often thrilled at the prospect of having their work made more
available in this fashion, provided they are given appropriate credit
for what they have done.
I'm not so sure that this kind of conversion is 'easy'. As a librarian
I know that libraries have been struggling for years to find
reasonably accurate and inexpensive ways to convert their old card
catalogs into online databases. A massive project, and nothing seems
to work except hiring someone to type in all the same data. Of course
if the source materials were sufficiently interesting and of great
value to the scholarly world, one might be able to get a foundation
grant to support such conversion...
Anyway, I would encourage anyone with useful lexical resources to take
the leap and consider making them available on the internet as
databases (not necessarily as ftp files). I would certainly be willing
to disuss mounting such databases here at Columbia as part of The
South Asia Gopher, to make them accessible from anywhere. The actual
mechanics of taking such a file and generating a keyword index (using,
for example, WAIS software on a unix server) to allow searching, are
fairly trivial, and I could undertake to do that for any files people
cared to deposit here for this purpose. The authors/compilers
obviously would have to supply all the supporting material as text
(i.e. the 'front matter' that explains methodologies, romanization and
encoding conventions, sources consulted, names of contributors,
acknowledgments, etc. etc.). This material would then form an "ABOUT"
file (or README) which would accompany the actual search menu on the
Gopher. What do you think?
David Magier
Columbia University
South Asia Gopher
magier at columbia.edu
