  From Her sublime original activity (i.e., power vibrating)
satva-filled reflection results; from it the rajasic ego; then
tamasic thought-forms which are commonly known as knowledge, or
the light corresponding to the magnifying lens. Just as the
artificial light is projected through a lens on to the screen,
so also the Reflected Light passes through thought (the
magnifier) before expanding as the world beyond it;
furthermore, thought, itself the world in-seed form, seems to
be the wide external world. Such is the extraordinary Power! In
this way Isvara, individual and the world are only of the
Reflected Light, having the Self-shining Single Being for the
substratum.

.  .  .

  288. Explaining Maya of Vedanta and swatantra of Pratyabhijna
(independence of recognition), Sri Bhagavan said :

  The Vedantins say that Maya is the sakti of illusion premised
in Siva. Maya has no independent existence. Having brought out
the illusion of the world as real, she continues to play upon the 
ignorance of the victims. When the reality of her not being
is found, she disappears. 'Recognition' says that Sakti (power)
is coeval with Siva. The one does not exist without the other.
Siva is unmanifest, whereas Sakti is manifest on account of Her
independent will swatantra. Her manifestation is the display of
the cosmos on pure consciousness, Iike images in a mirror. The
images cannot remain in the absence of a mirror. So also the
world cannot have an independent existence. Swatantra becomes
eventually an attribute of the Supreme. Sri Sankara says that
the Absolute is without attributes and that Maya is not and has
no real being. What is the difference between the two? Both
agree that the display is not real. The images of the mirror
cannot in any way be real. The world does not exist in reality
(vastutah). Both schools mean the same thing. Their ultimate
aim is to realise the Absolute Consciousness. The unreality of
the cosmos is implied in Recognition (Pratyabhijna), whereas it
is explicit in Vedanta. If the world be taken as chit
(consciousness), it is always real. Vedanta says that there is
no nana (diversity), meaning that it is all the same Reality.
There is agreement on all points except in words and the method
of expression.

.  .  .

  289. While discussing Karma, Sri Bhagavan said : "Karma has
its fruit (phala). They are like cause and effect. The
interrelation of a cause and its effect is due to a Sakti whom
we call God. God is phala data (dispenser of fruit).

  A visitor had been speaking of the Self having forgotten its
true nature. Sri Bhagavan after some time said : "People speak
of memory and oblivion of the Fullness of the Self. Oblivion
and memory are only thought-forms. They will alternate so long
as there are thoughts. But Reality lies beyond these. Memory or
oblivion must be dependent on something. That something must be
foreign too; otherwise there cannot be oblivion. It is called
'I' by everyone. When one looks for it, it is not found because
it is not real. Hence 'I' is synonymous with illusion or
ignorance (maya, avidya or ajnana). To know that there never
was ignorance is the goal of all the spiritual teachings.
Ignorance must be of one who is aware. Awareness is jnana.
Jnana is eternal and natural. Ajnana is unnatural and unreal.

  D.: Having heard this truth, why does not one remain content?
  M.: Because samskaras have not been destroyed. Unless the
samskaras cease to exist, there will always be doubt and
confusion (sandeha, viparita). All efforts are directed to
destroying doubt and confusion. To do so their roots must be
cut. Their roots are the samskaras. These are rendered
ineffective by practice as prescribed by the Guru. The Guru
leaves it to the seeker to do this much so that he might
himself find out that there is no ignorance. This truth
mentioned is in the stage of the hearing of the Truth
(sravana). That is not drdha (firm). For making it unshaken,
one has to practise reflection (manana) and one-pointedness
(nididhyasana). These two processes scorch the seeds of vasanas
so that they are rendered ineffective.
  Some extraordinary persons get drdha jnana (unshaken
knowledge) even on hearing the Truth only once (sakrchhravana
matrena). Because they are krthopasakah (advanced seekers),
whereas the akrthopasakah (raw seekers) take longer to gain
drdha jnana (unshaken knowledge). People ask : "How did
ignorance (avidya) arise at all?" We have to say to them :
"Ignorance never arose. It has no real being. That which is, is
only vidya (knowledge)."

  D.: Why then do I not realise it?
  M.: Because of the samskaras. However, find out who does not
realise and what he does not realise. Then it will be clear
that there is no avidya (ignorance).

SRI RAMANA MAHARSHI (all above, from "Talks with ...")

--------------------------------------------------------------

[Is consciousness really of "other" things?]

This is a question very often asked. Now, examining the question
itself we find that it is asked from the position that such an
identification exists, and this question also conceded the
existence of body, senses, and mind, besides that of
Consciousness transcending all these.

Consciousness and everything other than Consciousness exist in
two different planes. When we look from the plane of
Consciousness we find there is nothing other than Consciousness,
and there this question cannot arise. When looked at from the
mind's plane, and conceding the existence of both world and
Consciousness, it has been proved that Consciousness can be there
only as witness. The witness witnesses only perceptions and not
objects. It has also been proved that perception is nothing other
than Consciousness itself.

For this reason also the world is an illusion, and the question
cannot arise. The question cannot arise in Consciousness since
the world is not there. Nor can it arise in the mind's plane
since you cannot drag down Consciousness to the mind's level and
make it part of the apparent world.

ATMANANDA OF TRIVANDRUM

.  .  .

What is Pure Existence? The Self, the supreme Spirit, call it
what you will. That which you variously name God (Bhagavan),
Divine Majesty, Glory or Splendor, is only He, the One. Very
well, God is immutable, the non-doer, since He does not act. Only
one who engages in action may be described as the doer of that
action. Since He Himself is present in all causes and effects,
how can one speak of Him as controlling or not controlling them?
Thus, here He is actionless. But where His Maya is, where the
display of His Divine Power and Majesty is perceived, and where
nature functions according to fixed laws, who manifests there?
The One of course. Mutable and immutable--these one-sided views
of yours belong to the veil of ignorance. You speak of Him as the
doer or non-doer, trying to limit Him to the one or the other.
