which without Thee is nothing. From it proceeds the phantom of
the mind, emitting its latent subtle dark mists, which,
illuminated by Thy Light of Consciousness reflected upon them,
appear within as thoughts whirling in the vortices of prarabdha,
later developing into the psychic worlds and projected outwardly
as the material world, transformed into concrete objects which
are magnified by the outgoing senses and move about like pictures
in a cinema show. Visible or invisible, O Hill of Grace, without
Thee they are nothing!]

  Sri Bhagavan observed as follows:-

  The final word in the previous stanza asks, "Is there one?"
The initial words in the present stanza answer, "Yes, there is
the One....." It proceeds, "Though it is the only One, yet by
its wonderful power it gets reflected on the tiny dot 'I' (the
ego) otherwise known as ignorance or the aggregate of latent
tendencies; this reflected light is relative knowledge. This,
according to one's prarabdha (past karma now fructifying),
manifests the inner latent tendencies as the outer gross world
and withdraws the gross external world as the subtle internal
tendencies, such power is called mind in the subtle plane and
brain in the physical plane.

  This mind or brain acts as the magnifier to that Eternal One
Being and shows It forth as the expanded universe. In the
waking and dream states the mind is out-ward bent and in sleep
it is in-ward bent; with the mind as the medium, the one
Supreme Being seems diversified in the waking and dream states
and remains withdrawn in the sleep state, or swoon, etc.
Therefore you are only That and cannot be otherwise. Whatever
the changes, the same one Being remains as yourself; there is
nothing besides yourself."

  The previous stanza says : Once exposed to sunlight, a
sensitive plate cannot take on images; similarly, the mind (the
sensitive plate), after exposure in Your Light, cannot reflect
the world anymore. Moreover, the Sun is of You only. Should his
rays be so powerful as to prevent images being formed, how much
more so should Your Light be? It is thus said that there is
nothing apart from the One Being, Yourself.

  In the present stanza the tiny dot = the ego; the tiny dot
made up of darkness = the ego consisting of latent tendencies,
the seer or the subject or the ego rising, it expands itself as
the seen, the object or the antahkaranas (the inner organs).
The light must be dim in order to enable the ego to rise up. In
broad daylight a rope does not look like a snake. The rope
itself cannot be seen in thick darkness; so there is no chance
of mistaking it for a snake. Only in dim light, in the dusk, in
light darkened by shadows or in darkness lighted by dim light
does the mistake occur of a rope seeming a snake.

  Similarly it is for the Pure Radiant Being to rise up as the
Ego - it is possible only in Its Light diffused through
darkness. This darkness is otherwise known as the Original
Ignorance (Original Sin). The Light passing through it is
called Reflected Light. The Reflected Light on its own merits
is commonly known as the Pure Mind or Isvara or God. Isvara is
well-known to be unified with Maya : in other words the
Reflected Light is Isvara.

  The other name - Pure Mind - implies impure mind also. It is
the rajasic or active mind or the ego; this too can be
projected from the former satvic mind through another
reflection only; thus the ego is the product of the second
darkness (avidya) Then comes the tamasic or the dull mind in
the shape of antahkaranas (the inner organs); this appears as
the world.

