From kellner at ue.ipc.hiroshima-u.ac.jp  Fri May 26 18:58:52 1995
From: kellner at ue.ipc.hiroshima-u.ac.jp (kellner at ue.ipc.hiroshima-u.ac.jp)
Date: Fri, 26 May 95 18:58:52 +0000
Subject: Internet-resources on Asian Studies - repeated query
Message-ID: <161227019527.23782.14831605062015155710.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>


        Some of the recipients of this list might remember the posting I
sent out some months ago - requesting information on Internet-related
resources on Asian Studies in general, Tibetan and Buddhist Studies in
particular. The background was to provide the participants in the 7th
Seminar of the International Association of Tibetan Studies (IATS), which
will take place from 17th-24th of June in Seggau/Austria with an initial
directory of such resources, thereby not only documenting how the Internet
can be of scholarly use, but also presenting a "snap-shot" of the state of
the art. 

        I received a lot of information and would like to thank all those
who contributed. Second, for those who did not receive my original query, I
would like to re-state it and call for further information (mailing-lists,
ftp-sites for e-texts, software etc., Web-pages, e-mail-addresses for
research institutions) on the subject. 

        The document I have compiled so far comprises ca. 110 entries. I
made use of already existing directories such as Dr. Matthew Ciolek's
Buddhist Electronic Resource Directory (BERD), and his Tibetan Electronic
Resource Guide (TERG), which I up-dated and checked, and added a number of
resources which I personally deemed useful. Ultimately, the document shall
be made available on-line, although at the present stage, it is not yet
clear in which form. The idea is to somehow make it into an interactive
database, which will be made accessible through a Web-page of the Institute
for Indian Philosophy of Hiroshima University, which shall manifest itself
in course of the summer. 

        For the time being, if anybody is interested in an ASCII-file of the
database, feel free to e-mail me, and I will send it (zipped and uuencoded). 

        


                
Birgit Kellner
Institute for Indian Philosophy
University of Hiroshima

 





