Pointers to Katapayadi formula needed
Hello, I am in need of references relating to the Katapayadi
formula. Specifically, when and where it was first used and the range
of applications to which it has been put. I already have references
attesting its use in South Indian Musicology. The carnatic melakarta
scale names the 72 major ragas using the katapayadi scheme.
For those who don't know what I'm talking about, the katapayadi
formula is a name to number transformation scheme based on the
Sanskrit alphabet. In the specific instance I quoted, the raga
mayamalavagowla is called so because the katapayadi operation on
its name (actually the first two syllables) gives 15 since m=5 and
y=1. M is the 15th raga in the melakarta scale, which allows us
to deduce its notes mechanically!
This scheme was applied in musicology by Venkatamakhi, son of Govinda
Dikshita (17th cent). The first official mention of this formula is
found in his book "Caturtand.i Prakasika".  But belief that even
Sankara was named in accordance with the formula such that the number
derived from his name results in his Date of Birth in the Indian
lunar calendar abounds in India. Thus I suspect the formula itself
was known and in widespread use in various other disciplines before
its application in musicology. This is especially so as Venkatamakhi
makes no claims to it and takes its existence for granted in his
book.
Any pointers in this regard, to books/journals/articles about the
katapayadi scheme will be greatly appreciated. Our library does not
have a good collection of Indian journals and so I am forced to search
electronically in this way.
Many thanks in advance.
- &
# The following record is a random selection from Indhist 1.0
It occurs  to me  to introduce here  the saying  of Poros [Puru]; for
when  he was  led  as a captive to  Alexander,  and was  asked how he
wished to be treated: `As a king, O  Alexander!' he replied, and when
he was  again  asked if  there  was anything   else, his  reply  was:
`Nothing, for in the words "as a King" everything was comprehended.'
- Plutarch Oration I.11
