From mitra at aecom.yu.edu  Thu Aug 24 17:58:32 1995
From: mitra at aecom.yu.edu (Joydeep Mitra)
Date: Thu, 24 Aug 95 13:58:32 -0400
Subject: Comparing Indian business situation with successful Pacific islands.
Message-ID: <161227020685.23782.451805945094416595.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dominick pointed out that the demand for Indic languages in academic 
institutions are falling, while those for Japanese, Korean and other
related ones going in the other direction.  Hence, this may be taken
as an indication of the relative 'economic' health in those regions.

I don't think anyone has any doubts  about  the  robustness  of  the
Japanese economy (not just relative to India)  to  other  'powerful'
ones. The 'reform' process in India is only 4 years old  -it may not
be appropriate to look for much 'greatness' in a pursuit this early.
Japan, Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and other economies  involve  much
smaller population size, economic, political, social  and  religious
disparity in them than does India or even China. There are more poor
(& rich) people in some cities in India than in many other nations!

The per capita GDP of China is ~$420 and that of India is ~$360. The
sheer size of these two nations (in terms of population and area) if
becomes a place with a per capita GDP  of  ~$25000 - would  have  to
create wealth in magnitude that the world has never seen before. Yes,
once it happens there will be many people  wishing  to  learn  Indic
languages -it surely is not going to happen in the next 100 years.

In regard  to the reality of the optimism in Indian business people,
I would like to point out that there is no place where people do not
start with hope. In many cases, their optimism may  disappoint  some
but it rejuvenates and enthuses many to accomplish things that  they
have never done before. I doubt  if any of these people think  every
one of the billion Indian people will be rich within the next decade
but I do think that each of those billion will be better  off  -some
more better than others, of course, in the not so distant future.

Here in N Y City, some do ride Lamborghinis while others the subway.
In London, I suppose not many Indologists go to work in a Rolls R. I
think in India there are and there will be similar  differences.  My
hope is that the lowest rung of the Indian population be given  more
opportunity to move up faster without being gobbled up in  casteism,
religious clashes and other evils.  A 'level playing field' will do!

--Joydeep Mitra.
 





