India's economic boom and South Asian studies: a linkage?
Frank Conlon wrote:
 I am,
The attitudes of the funding authorities are certainly a problem. Much will
depend on how South Asianists try to "sell" their activities.
I feel that this is partly beside the point. When Chinese studies are
encouraged and funded, the idea is probably not that every business man
conducting business in China should be able to negotiate in Chinese. The
motive is rather a feeling that the country should have a pool of experts
who can offer advice, produce analyses and act as interpreters. In India,
the use of the English language mostly removes the need for interpreters,
but experts on various aspects of South Asian matters will still be needed
if the Western economies are to interact with India in a more vigorous
manner. For such experts, knowledge of Indic languages may be important.
I am afraid that this is correct. But on the other hand, the same thing
applies to a number of humanist studies. The humanities and their
representatives have not been very good at making themselves "relevant".
There are historical reasons for this, it is part of the ideology of the
value of "pure knowledge" and contempt for practical work which goes back
to the times of Plato. The Humanities have lost ground partly because they
found it beneath their dignity to defend themselves against the onslaught
of modern science. Their loss of "relevance" is partly self-inflicted, but
it is also caused by modern "cost-benefit" analysis, where the Humanities
easily get into a jam. Humanists need to do some hard thinking about their
role in society and the value of their contributions.
The bottom line is an imaginary entity. Like all imaginary entities it can
be place anywhere provided you are able to convince others that "anywhere"
is the right place for it.
Best regards,
Lars Martin Fosse
Lars Martin Fosse
Research Fellow
Department of East European
and Oriental Studies
P. O. Box 1030, Blindern
N-0315 OSLO Norway
Fax: +47 22 85 41 40
E-mail: l.m.fosse at easteur-orient.uio.no
