Poverty
/ FROM:  "James L. Fitzgerald" <UTKVM1.UTK.EDU!PA114508 at ucsd.UUCP>, Aug 23 20:44 1995
| ABOUT: Re: Poverty
|
| >Dominik writes:
| >* It is another fact of Sanskrit, Tamil and other classical Indian
| >* literature that poverty is rarely, if ever, glamorized or treated as
| >* metaphor, in the manner in which Sadhunathan has done.
| >
Yes, a fascinating thread, to be sure.
Lest anyone think I'm advocating poverty, I'm not!  
And perhaps I should have taken more care to differentiate between
poverty and renunciation, but in any case, the original thought behind
the posting of the editorial on poverty was to show a difference in
perspective, East vs West.
But in response to the above, here is some classical Tamil literature
to enjoy regarding poverty, begging, and renunciation, from the Kural.
I think pretty much everyone would agree with it.
-Sadhunathan
     Poverty
     Verse 1041
     Ask what is more miserable than being poor 
     And the answer comes-only poverty pains like poverty.
     Verse 1042
     Poverty, the cruelest of demons, deprives a man 
     Of every joy in this life as well as the next.
     Verse 1043
     That poison called poverty will destroy at once 
     The honor of ancient descent and the refinement of speech.
     Verse 1044
     Privation produces unmindfulness which gives birth 
     To improper words, even in men of proper birth.
     Verse 1045
     This one affliction called poverty 
     Brings in its train a multitude of miseries.
     Verse 1046
     The poor may perceive profoundly and speak skillfully, 
     Yet their meaningful words are always forgotten.
     Verse 1047
     Poverty, destitute of all virtue, estranges a man 
     Even from the mother who bore him.
     Verse 1048
     Will wretched poverty which is kiling me so 
     Come again today as of yesterday?
     Verse 1049
     Men may slumber even in the midst of fire, 
     But none can find repose in poverty's presence.
     Verse 1050
     Having become fatally impoverished, let a man fully renounce, 
     Lest he fatally exhaust his neighbor's vinegar and salt.
     Begging
     Verse 1051
     If you meet a man of means, you may beg his help.  
     If he refuses, the fault is his, not yours.
     Verse 1052
     Even begging can prove pleasurable 
     When what is begged for comes without a sense of burden.
     Verse 1053
     Begging has its own beauty if one supplicates 
     Before dutiful men whose hearts never say no.
     Verse 1054
     There are men who never deny a request even in a dream.  
     Begging from such men is as good as giving.
     Verse 1055
     Because men do exist on earth who never begrudge giving, 
     Others dare to plead before men's gaze.
     Verse 1056
     The evils of begging will flee at the mere sight 
     Of those who are free from the evil of refusal.
     Verse 1057
     There is rejoicing in a jubilant heart 
     Upon seeing those who give without scoffing or scorning.
     Verse 1058
     Deprived of its beggars, this vast and verdant earth 
     Would be reduced to a sphere for the wooden play of puppets.
     Verse 1059
     What glory would generous men have 
     If there were none to beg and receive their gifts?
     Verse 1060
     One who begs and is refused should not be angry 
     For his own poverty is sufficient proof.
     Dread of Begging
     Verse 1061
     It is ten million times better not to beg, even from those 
     Precious few who find joy in generosity and thus never refuse.
     Verse 1062
     Were it the world's Creator who wished men to live by begging, 
     Men might well wish that He Himself also die a wanderer.
     Verse 1063
     There is no greater foolhardiness than saying to oneself, "I shall
     End the pains of poverty by begging."
     Verse 1064
     The entire world is too small to contain the dignity of men 
     Who stoop not to beg even in the midst of destitution.
     Verse 1065
     Though it is only gruel thin as water, nothing is more savory 
     Than the food that is earned by the labor of one's hands.
     Verse 1066
     The tongue finds nothing more distasteful than begging 
     Even to simply plead for the cow's drinking water.
     Verse 1067
     This I beg of all beggers, "If beg you must, beg not from misers."
     Verse 1068
     The unsturdy ship called begging will break apart 
     The moment it crashes against the rock of refusal.
     Verse 1069
     Thoughts of the beggar's plight must melt one's heart, 
     But thoughts of refusals he receives crushes it completely.
     Verse 1070
     Is there any place a miser can safely hide 
     When inside him resounds the word "no" which slays beggars?
     Greatness of Renunciates
     Verse 21
     The scriptures exalt above every other good 
     The greatness of virtuous renunciates.
     Verse 22
     Attempting to speak of the renunciate's magnitude 
     Is akin to measuring the human multitudes who have ever died.
     Verse 23
     Behold those who have weighed the dual nature of things and
     followed The renunciate's way. Their greatness illumines the
     world.
     Verse 24
     He whose firm will, wisdom's goading hook, controls his five senses 
     Is a seed that will flourish in the fields of heaven.
     Verse 25
     So great is the power of those who subdue the five senses, even Indra, 
     Sovereign of spacious heaven's celestials, suffered their curse.
     Verse 26
     The great ones are they who can dispatch the most
     Difficult tasks; the small ones are they who cannot.
     Verse 27
     Touch, taste, sight, smell and hearing- 
     He who controls these five magically controls the world.
     Verse 28
     Their own secret sayings reveal to the world 
     The greatness of men whose words prove prophetic.
     Verse 29
     It is impossible to endure even a moment's wrath of those 
     Who have scaled and stand upon the mountain called virtue.
     Verse 30
     Renunciates are called the priestly ones 
     For they are clothed in robes of compassion for all life.
     Renunciation
     Verse 341
     Whatsoever a man has renounced,
