more questions about indian plants
A common thread of discussion in Indology concerns the precise identification
of Indian plants used either in traditional medecine or in puja. For
instance, I was fascinated to hear about the mention of arka as one of the
21 plants sacred to Ganesh. Does someone here know about the list of
these plants? Where is the source of the Ekavimshati patra puja ritual?
Given such a list, presumably of sanskrit names, the problem will remain
of their precise identification in the scientific terminology of botany.
I have been looking for reasonable floras of the indian sub-continent, but
so far have come up only with mediocre descriptions of a few trees and schrubs.
Do you know of any available such flora, hopefully listing vernacular names
of the plants? This would help solving systematically such questions.
Such a discussion already occurred last february, when there was a flurry of 
interest on "kaumudii", but at the time all that emerged was the mention
by Dr Goodall of "Die Flora Altindiens. Renate Syed. Munich ?1991.", 
apparently an unpublished thesis, to which Dominik added a list of
rather specialised monographies on ayurvedic medicine and other hard-to-get
materials. Is this really the state of the art?
Let me mention two specific problems I am unable to solve with my
(admittedly poor) documentation.
The first one is the kitoka flower. It occurs in the myth of the fire
lingam. When BrahmA went up, he met Kitoka, who had been decorating 'Siva's
hair. She pretended to have seen the Face of the Lord, a lie which
was foolishly repeated by BrahmA. In punition, 'Siva gave aBi'sApa to
Kitoka: she was from now on impure for 'Siva worship, except on 'Siva rAtri.
Now my question is what is this "kitoka" flower, of which I have only
the above oral account. Does any one of you know its sanskrit and/or
latin scientific name?
The second one concerns "amla". There is a sanskrit plant
Amalaka or AmalakI usually assigned to Emblica Officinalis, the Myrobolan
Tree. In the neuter gender, Amalaka designates its fruit, which is used
in architecture to name the crowning portion of the 'siKara of South Indian
temples, because of its resemblance to the fruit. Indeed I have seen the
fruit, of unmistakable form, on trees on the eastern coast of Deccan,
which looked like coniferas.
Now some time ago I read an article in an Indian newspaper about amla,
"a minor crop for arid areas", assigned also to Emblica Officinalis Gaertn,
with a picture of clusters of berries. "Its fruits are large, attractive,
translucent with 6 segments, greenish yellow with a flat base, etc". In
any case, nothing to do whatsoever with the previous plant.
I have heard also the name Amla connected to some sort of mango tree.
Thus my confusion is extreme. Any experts on amla?
Gerard Huet
