BKS. ON MEDICINAL PLANTS
          Re Gerard Huet's questions on sources on Indian plants: 
          There  were  a  number of  large books  on  Indian materia medica 
          published in  the British period, most of  them with Sanskrit and 
          vernacular names.   In  addition,  since independence there  have 
          been  books  on  the  subject published  in  most  of  the  major 
          languages, most  of  them with names in other languages as  well, 
          and illustrated (usually  with  line  drawings).   Many  research 
          libraries  will  have  several  of  these, searchable  under  the 
          subject headings "materia medica--India," "botany,                
          medical--India," "materia medica, vegetable--India," and          
          "medicinal plants--India."  E.g.  to search Library of Congress's 
          holdings telnet to marvel.loc.gov and log in  as marvel, or using 
          a  gopher client or gopher server  by pointing to marvel.loc.gov, 
          port  70.  (The latter method can accomodate a  larger number  of 
          outside searchers at one time). If  you cannot get  to  a library 
          with these books  or access it  by interlibrary loan there  is  a 
          dealer  in  Delhi,  Pama Primlani,  who specialises in  botanical 
          books o.p. and  in print.  If anyone's interested I would have to 
          root around to verify his current address. 
          An  interesting  question  is  to  what  degree  the  traditional 
          physicians knew  the  flora  as plants  as opposed to articles of 
          commerce.  The  late Gunther-Dietz Sontheimer told  me  that  the 
          adivasis in Maharashtra could distinguish a  far larger number of 
          plants  (which  the  gathered  for  the  medicaltrade)  than  the 
          mainline population. 
          It would in any case be nice to have a color picture book of  the 
          plants prominent in  the classical literature of Sanskrit and the 
          other languages. 
          Allen Thrasher 
          Library of Congress 
          athr at loc.gov                                                      
