Divali
Even though the following article is a rather good account of the festival
of Diwali, I think it only depicts one much-publicized side of it and
ignores an important although not-so-popular side.  Therefore, some
clarifications are probably in order. Please see my response to the various
segments of the article. Thanks.
-Partha Banerjee
Dept. of Biology
University at Albany
Albany, New York, USA
My response: Just a small anecdote. Mr. Seshadri is the present chief of
the Hindu fundamentalist organization -- RSS or the Rashtriya Swayamsevak
Sangh. A close look at the organization would not be totally irrelevant in
this context. However, I resist myself of the urge to going into the
details of it in this discussion. One might refer to some recent threads on
RSS in newsgroups such as soc.culture.indian, soc.culture.bengali,
soc.culture.indian.kerala, or soc.culture.indian.marathi.
My response:
This description of the festivities, however grandiose and utopian, is
rather one-sided and does not depict the way many poorer communities in
India spend the Diwali times. There are millions of families in India where
no lamps are lit, no crackers are cracked, and no ornaments are worn.
Diwali (and many other Indian festivities) has been synonymous with the
eclectic upper hierarchy of the Hindu religion for ages.  In most Hindu
temples, the so-called "untouchables" would not even be allowed to enter to
celebrate this or any other such eclectic festivities -- whether religious
or socio-cultural.
My response:
Again, this is vague. Who is the divine and who is the wicked? The Hindu
religion (as practiced and imposed-upon by the Brahminical order)
deliberately confuses this important issue. The so-called elite of the
upper castes who have traditionally been ruling India and Hinduism: are
they divine? Are the so-called "Indo-European Aryas" divine? And the
"non-Aryas" (including the non-Hindus) wicked? That's the much-publicized
prevalent concept. In Ramayana, the "non-Arya" "demon" king Ravana, who to
me signifies nothing but human steadfastness and bravery, is killed by the
"Arya"-therefore-"divine" Lord Rama where the latter resorts to any
possible deceptive and deplorable tactics to conquer the land of Lanka (or
Srilanka as we know it now).
The celebration of Dussera, a parallel festival (the tenth day of the
ceremony to worship Goddess Durga) is in fact a relic of Lord Rama's
invocation of the Goddess which is also known as "Akal Bodhan" (i.e., an
untimely invocation) as traditionally in ancient India, the worship of
Durga would take place much later in the year. Rama, according to Hindu
scriptures, did this untimely supplication to earn the blessings of the
Goddess to conquer Ravana.
Lord Rama is glorified in Brahminical Hinduism and of course, Ravana is
ridiculed to death (as is manifested by the ritualistic blazing of Ravana's
kushaputtalika or straw icon).  The fundamentalist Hindu parties in India
champion the causes of Lord Rama (however vague they may be) to exploit the
unchallenging mindset of the Hindu electorate.
What do Indology scholars do in this intellectual paradox? Would be
interesting to see.
My response:
See the problem here. Rama, according to Mr. Seshadri, unified the north
and south. In reality, he killed the mighty Ravana and extended the "Aryan"
Hindu invasion to the south.  All voices of dissent were silenced.  All
other ways to live in India were methodically discouraged.  Socio-religious
conformity was forcefully imposed.  And, regarding the "grand unity of our
motherland", welcome to the indoctrination of the celebrated RSS and its
daughter organizations BJP (the now-formidable Hindu right-wing political
party), the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP)--the religious wing, or the
Vivekananda Kendra--the social-work wing.
My response:
See the incoherence (quite expectedly so) among the various Indian
festivities around Diwali.  In Bengal, for instance, Durga Puja is now the
most-celebrated customary festival, particularly in the cities where the
upper-caste affluent live (in villages, they have their own celebrations,
e.g., the Raas-Lila of Sri Chaitanya who through his socio-religious
movements broke down the barriers of the degenerate caste-system and
brought about interreligious faith).
However, Diwali, as we know it in Bengal, is the time when people worship
the Goddess Kali.  Kali is naked symbolizing disavowal of earthly objects
arguably also including the dogmas of orthodoxy. Kali is wild. Kali with
her "rakhshasi" companions dances in the "shmashan".  Kali breaks down all
the barriers.  The barriers imposed upon by the Hindu upper-caste
hierarchy.
To me, that's Diwali.
