advertisement for a Southeast Asian lit & culture position
Dear colleagues,
	Please forward the following advertisement for a position in 
Southeast Asian literature and culture at the University of Michigan to 
interested individuals, institutions, and networks.  Thanks.
	Madhav Deshpande
The Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, University of Michigan, 
seeks candidates for a tenure-track position in Southeast Asian 
literature and culture (including cultural studies, literary criticism, 
history, performance studies, art, religion, folklore etc.) beginning in 
the fall term, 1996.  Rank:  Assistant Professor; possible senior 
appointment.  Applicants should have a Ph.D. (or advanced candidacy) in 
an appropriate humanities or social science discipline, native or 
near-native competence in a Southeast Asian language and a deep 
understanding of and ability to interpret the literatures and the 
cultures of the region in a wider academic context.  Teaching duties will 
include graduate seminars that explore issues in cultural studies or 
literary theory from an Asian or East-West perspective, undergraduate 
courses on the literary, religious, and historical cultures of the 
region, and upper-level courses in which students read and interpret 
indigenous texts.  We seek a person with evidence of excellence in 
undergraduate teaching and one with broad comparative and 
interdisciplinary interests who can integrate Southeast Asia within the 
wider humanities curriculum and eventually assist in creating a graduate 
program in Southeast Asian Literatures and Cultures.  Please send letter, 
CV, at least three letters of recommendation, and evidence of research 
interests by February 15, 1996, to the Chair of the Southeast Asia Search 
Committee, Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, 3070 Frieze 
Building, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285.  Phone (313) 
764-8286, Fax (313) 747-0157.  The University of Michigan is an equal 
opportunity, affirmative action employer.
Questions regarding this position may be addressed to Prof. Madhav Deshpande.
	Phone: (313) 747-2159, or
	e-mail:  mmdesh at umich.edu
