From n.rao at rz.uni-sb.de  Fri Oct  6 23:58:57 1995
From: n.rao at rz.uni-sb.de (n.rao at rz.uni-sb.de)
Date: Sat, 07 Oct 95 00:58:57 +0100
Subject: Divali
Message-ID: <161227021105.23782.6387096746118970168.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Gary M. Tartokov wrote
>I want to support Banerjee's fuller development of the meaning of
>Divali....>

>It is important not to idealise any culture in such a way that we
>suppose that all have the same experience or that only the elite
>experience is meaningful. 

I very much accept the above proposition  - that idealising "Indian Culture" is 
not desirable. 
However, how far the equation of Aryan and Brahmin on the one hand 
 and Non-Aryan and Dravidian on the other is scholarly? Apart from this 
posting of Banerjee, 
there was also the talk about Indian "caste system", in one of the 
threads on poverty ( - which I read quite late, and to which I therefore 
I did not feel like  contributing.) The jAti - is it a "system" in the sense 
that there are Brahmins restricting others from celebrating something 
as the following sentence implies?

> As long a Brahmanical ceremonies include
>serious caste restrictions we can't say this is how they are celebrated
>unless we indicate the restrictions on who is allowed  celebrate them
>and who is not.  
> 
There is and there was certainly hierarchy in Indian society, and also
 all sort of cruelty oppression and what not. But there were and there are 
 lots of horizontal groupings with  lots and lots of rivalry. What and how 
should
 one understand phrases like 
> The Hindu
religion (as practised and imposed-upon by the Brahminical order)<?(Bannerjee)

How far the so called 'Hindu religion' is that of 'Brahminical Order' 
(whatever that may mean)?. I belong to 'brahmin' jAti, but in my school
 days neither I nor my father knew that we were supposed to be 'Hindus' 
(evidence: when I had to fill up the admission form to the high school,
 I asked my father, what I should write in the column, ?religion'; 
he was not quite uneducated person, but still he didn't know the
 answer 'Hindu' for this question. At least when it comes to "caste system"
and talking about the supposed "Hindu religion", empirical issues do not appear
 to bother very much the contributors to the Indology forum!). 
