electronic *JOURNAL OF SOUTH ASIAN WOMEN STUDIES*
Friends and Colleagues,
This is to inform you of the new electronic JOURNAL OF SOUTH ASIAN WOMEN 
STUDIES.
Subscription is free and open to all. Articles, news, etc. 
submitted to the journal are subject to review before publication.
                 JOURNAL OF SOUTH ASIAN WOMEN STUDIES
   Editor-in-Chief: Enrica GARZILLI (Harvard University)
   Editorial Board: Himendra B. THAKUR (International Society 
                    Against Dowry and Bride-Burning in India, inc.), 
                    <exact composition to follow>
   Technical Editor: Arch. Ludovico MAGNOCAVALLO   
   e-mail (to subscribe): india at shore.net
   WWW: http://www.shore.net/~india/jsaws
                   ---------------------------------
1) This journal is open to all *bona fide* scholars in South Asian Women 
Studies. It is meant to disseminate works which address theoretical and 
practical issues that are of interest to both scholars of 
South Asia and to women in and from South Asia.
Subjects: law, civil rights, gender issues, religion, philosophy, politics, 
feminism and ecofeminism, classical and modern literature, poetry, 
dance, music, drama, language, translations, history, folklore, customs, 
medicine, architecture, discoveries and cultural or social products by 
women, etc. 
Areas of study: India, Nepal, Tibet, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Shri Lanka, 
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, Thailand, Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, Taiwan, 
Maldives, Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines. 
2) It is monitored for style and content by the Editor-in-Chief.
3) There is copyright but with automatic permission to publish anywhere else 
later on when the author wishes to do so. Our aim is to promote 
an international debate on the subject and to disseminate our work quickly.
4) We include unpublished articles, abstracts, and news (such as on 
published books, on papers, conferences, meetings, events, 
Ph.D. projects, etc.)
5) We plan to publish once a year a hard copy of all the contributions 
to this Journal. It will be distributed under request. 
garzilli at shore.net
or
garzilli at HULAW1.HARVARD.EDU
india at shore.net
 With this subject and/or content:
 subscribe (your-name)
e.g.: subscribe (Joseph Green)
                 Subscriptions are open from now, October, 1995
http://www.shore.net/~india/jsaws/
 WWW pages will be created by October 7, 1995.
                   * Submissions are always welcome! *
Dott. Enrica Garzilli
Harvard Law School 
email: garzilli at shore.net 
or
garzilli at HULAW1.HARVARD.EDU 
