new translations
On Wed, 29 Nov 1995, Birgit Kellner wrote:
Well, it's not so hard to render, in some cases, subjects and predicates
preserving the Sanskrit order and relation.  Shouldn't one do so, other 
things being equal?  Of course, often there can't be much syntactical 
mirroring.
As to the second desideratum -
I beg to disagree.  Gan;ges;a is often lucid, and maybe not colloquial
but entirely clear.  And when he is not straigtforwardly clear (he is 
after all writing about perception, inference, analogical acquisition of 
vocabulary, and comprehension of what someone says, matters with which we 
all have a direct acquaintance), his thought can be made clear in comments.
 To be precise: The Navya-Naiyyayikas, as much as every other Indian
Yes, I have presupposed in my audience some familiarity with the history of
Western philosophy, about that of a junior undergraduate philosophy 
major, and have not presupposed familarity with Indian thought.  But, I 
am sorry, translation for this audience is not so difficult as you make 
out.  Long compounds with an abstract suffix in the ablative or 
instrumental case of course have to be rendered as subordinate clauses 
or the like in English, but I should think it would not be too hard for a 
student of Sanskrit to be able to retrace my renderings of Gan;ges;a; 
there is a correspondence, though not a word-for-word relationality.
I try to restrict using parentheses for true propositional anaphora and
ellipsis.  I use a separate section labelled "Comments" for elaboration 
and presentation of further background.
Probably what I mean by propositional anaphora (paradigmatically, "it" 
used to refer to whole views) is a part of what Kellner means by:
 Just because a textual element is not lexically represented on
But he probably also means more.  Maybe I shouldn't feel the need for 
parentheses.  However, like everything else, there is a way of using them 
well.
Stephen Phillips
I plan to read in the literature on translation Kellner mentions.  Thank 
you, sir.
