new translations
Satyanad Kichenassamy slightly misunderstood me: 
It was not my piece of advice, but one I got repeatedly, and I find it
increasingly less useful. In other words: I reject or criticize this piece
of advice, I do not condone it. 
This suggests that there is a type of translation which is more mechanical
than another, less creative, and sort of shuts off the translator's own
ideas during a machine-like process of copying chunks of meaning from one
language into the other. Every translation presupposes a process of
understanding a text. I consider understanding a text to be much more than
merely passive reception - it is a creative process, indeed, and trying to
get one's own understanding into one's own words, which nevertheless
translate the original text, is creative, too, which doesn't mean that it
can't be scientific in the sense of being accurate, documented and
objectifiable. 
The same holds for the requirement that nothing but the intent of the author
should be conveyed in a scientific translation. First of all, the provision
"as far as it has been reconstructed" already shows that the access to
auctorial intention is not straightforward. Also, an author's intention is
necessarily uniform. He might want to comment on another author's text in
one passage, direct nasty remarks against opponents in the next and simply
drift off into his own thoughts in the third. 
So what, then, is the use of a translation when you freely update or amend
their arguments? Why bother translating in the first place? This approach is
also at odds with your previously expressed requirement that translations
should maintain the intention of the author. Intentions are bound to
particular historical circumstances and linked to specific target-audiences.
If you update Dharmakiirtian ideas into theories of computer-vision, you may
arrive at indeed creative interpretations, but you do not translate anymore. 
Birgit Kellner
Institute for Indian Philosophy
University of Hiroshima
