CFV for SCI.PHILOSOPHY.NATURAL Moderated
The first call for votes (CFV) for the moderated group
sci.philosophy.natural has been posted in news.groups.
HOW TO VOTE
Just call up the CFV in news.groups, delete everything but the
ballot, type your name and your vote, and forward it to the
votetaker.
Votes must be received by 23:59:59 UTC, 12 Dec 1995.
This vote is being conducted by a neutral third party.  Questions
about
the proposed group should be directed to the proponent.
Proponent: Will Wagers <wagers at computek.net>
Mentor:  Mark James <jamesm at dialogic.com>
Votetaker: David Bostwick
<david.bostwick at chemistry.gatech.edu>
RATIONALE: sci.philosophy.natural
sci.philosophy.natural will meet a long-standing demand for a moderated
newsgroup for the scholarly discussion of and publications on ancient
natural philosophy (science) without flames and without unfounded
'speculative' postings. The proposed newsgroup would not replace any
existing groups. There is a small overlap with *many* existing newsgroups
and mailing lists in that subjects appropriate to sci.philosophy.natural
are occasionally discussed there. One purpose of sci.philosophy.natural is
to bring these discussions under one roof to facilitate interdisciplinary
scholarship. In some cases, this may result in offloading some traffic from
high volume newsgroups and mailing lists. It would still leave any and all
posters the forums that currently exist, so there is no question of denying
anyone an outlet for their ideas. The small number of newsgroups and
mailing lists which regularly deal with topics appropriate to
sci.philosophy.natural may regard the proposed newsgroup as a means of
publishing finished articles after the rounds of specialist comment and
criticism have occurred.
Thanks for your participation. This notice has been cross-posted. My apologies
if you encounter it on more than one list.
Wishing you all had a great Thanksgiving !
(wish void where impolitic, inopportune, or otherwise inadvisable)
Will
