AOIS Approved News Release:  World's *Cheapest* Way to get USA         Magazine Subscriptions delivered to *any* country (1,500+ USA titles         to choose from) + FREE 1 yr. subscription (choose from 295+ titles)
for more info Form."  Then, to get more info, just fill out the "Request
for More Info" form completely and email it back to the company.  To make
it easier for you to reply, I have put their address in the "Reply-To"
field, which means you can just use your email software to reply to this
message in order to get that address to pop-up in your "To:" field. <-----
*------------cut here-----------------------------------------------*
REQUEST FOR MORE INFO:  please return *only* this section only via
internet email to:
FREE-magazine-subscription-offer at 0.5.5.1.7.6.9.8.1.7.1.tpc.int
Sorry, but incomplete forms *will not* be acknowledged.  If you do not
have an email address, or access to one, they will not be able to help you
until you do have one.  If you saw this message, then you should have one.  :)
Name:
Internet email address:
Smail home address:
City-State-Zip:
Country:
Work Tel. #:
Work Fax #:
Home Tel. #:
Home Fax #:
How did you hear about us (name of person who referred you or the area of
the internet that you saw us mentioned in):  Referral by  Yoshio Koseki.
111195-l
Name of USA mags you currently get on the newstand or in the store:
Name of USA mags you currently get on the newstand or in the store:
Name of USA mags you currently get on a subscription basis, through the mail:
Name of USA mags you would like price quotes on when we call you:
Catalogue format desired (list "1," "2," "3" or "4"):
*------------cut here-----------------------------------------------*
Catalogue Options:
1.  19-Part email- can be read by EVERYONE (~525 K Total).
2.  For more advanced computer users:  attached text file ~525K - you
     must know how to download an attached text file and then be able to
     open it with your word processor.  If in doubt, don't ask for this
     version.  This isn't for internet *newbies.* Better to order option 1
     and spend a few minutes pasting them into one whole text document
     with your word processor, than to waste hours trying to figure how
     to deal with this option.
3.  For more advanced Macintosh computer users: compressed attached
     text file, created with a Stuffit(tm) self-extracting archive (.sea),
      ~133K.  Can be decompressed by any Macintosh computer user; no
     special expansion software or knowledge of Stuffit (tm) needed.  You
     just double-click on the file icon and it automatically expands
     (unstuffs). This is for more advanced mac computer users only, as
     you still have to know how to deal with an attached file.  It will cut
     your download time by 75%.   Expands out to the same ~525K file in
     option #2.  See option #2 for more info on what you will need to be
     able to do.
4.  For expert computer users: compressed attached text file, created with
     Stuffit(tm),  ~114K.  Can be decompressed by any computer user who
     has expansion software to decompress (expand) Stuffit(tm) (.sit) files.
     This is for more advanced computer users only and will cut your
     download time by 78%.   Expands out to the same ~525K file in option
     #2.  See option #2 for more info on what you will need to be able to do.
Hi fellow 'netters,
My name is Yoshio Koseki and I recently started using a magazine
subscription club in the USA that has a FREE 1 yr. magazine subscription
deal with your first paid order- and I have been very pleased with them.
They have over 1,500 different USA titles that they can ship to any country
on a subscription basis.   As for computer magazines from the USA, they
more of a selection than I ever knew even existed.  They have magazines for
most every area of interest in their list of 1,500 titles.
Within the USA, for their USA members, they are cheaper than all their
competitors and even the publishers themselves.  This is their price
guarantee.
Overseas, on the average, they are generally around one-fourth to one-half
of what the newstands overseas charge locally for USA magazines.  On some
titles they are as little as one-tenth of what the newstands charge.  They
feel that mgazines should not be a luxury overseas.   In the USA, people
buy magazines and then toss them after reading them for just a few minutes
or hours.  They are so cheap in the USA!   Well, this company would like to
make it the same way for their overseas members.  They are also cheaper
than all their competitors in the USA and overseas, including the
publishers themselves!   This is their price guarantee.  Around one-half
their business comes from overseas, so they are very patient with new
members who only speak limited English as a 2nd language.
Their prices are so cheap because they deal direct with each publisher and
cut-out all the middlemen.
They will send you their DELUXE EMAIL CATALOGUE (around 525K-big and
juicey) !)...if you completely fill out the form above.  It has lists of
all the freebies, lists of all the titles they sell, titles broken down by
categories and detailed descriptions on nearly 1,200 of the titles that
they sell.
Please do not email me as I am just a happy customer and a *busy* student.
I don't have time to even complete my thesis in time, let alone run my
part-time software business!  Please fill out the below form and email to
them at:
FREE-magazine-subscription-offer at 0.5.5.1.7.6.9.8.1.7.1.tpc.int
*NOTE:   to make it easier for you to reply, I have put their address in
the "Reply-To" field, which means you can just use your email software to
reply to this message in order to get that address to pop-up in your "To:"
field.*
They guarantee to beat all their competitors' prices. Sometimes they are
less than half of the next best deal I have been able to find and other
times, just a little cheaper - but I have never found a lower rate yet.
They assured me that if I ever do, they will beat it.
They have been very helpful and helped me change my address from the USA to
Finland and then back again when I moved last month.  They are very
knowledgeable about addressing mags worldwide.
They have a deal where you can get a free 1 yr. sub to a new magazine from
a special list of over 300 popular titles published in the USA.   They will
give you this free 1 yr. sub when you place your first paid order with them
to a renewal or new subscription to any of the over 1,500 different popular
USA titles they sell.
They can arrange delivery to virtually any country and I think they have
clients in around 35 or 36 countries now.  Outside the USA there is a
charge for foreign postage and handling (on both paid and freebie subs)
that varies from magazine to magazine.  I have found their staff to be very
friendly and courteous.  They even helped me with an address change when I
moved from one country to another.
The owner thinks of his service as a "club" and his clients as "members"
(even though there is no extra fee to become a member - your first purchase
automatically makes you a member) and he is real picky about who he accepts
as a new member.   When he sets you up as a new member, he himself calls
you personally on the phone to explain how he works his deal, or sometimes
he has one of his assistants call.  He is kind of quirky sometimes - he
insists on setting up new members by phone so he can say hi to everyone (I
sure wouldn't want to have his phone bills!),  but you can place future
orders (after your first order) via E-mail.
He has some really friendly young ladies working for him, who seem to know
just as much as he does about this magazine stuff.  If you live overseas,
he will even call you there, as long as you are interested, but I think he
still makes all his overseas calls on the weekends, I guess cause the long
distance rates are cheaper then.
He only likes to take new members from referrals from satisfied existing
members and he does virtually no advertising.  When I got set-up, they had
a 2-3 week waiting list for new members to be called back so that they
could join up. (Once you are an existing member, they help you immediately
when you call. )  I think they are able to get back to prospective new
members  the same day or within a few days now, as they have increased
their staff.  I am not sure about this.........but if you email the above
form to them, that is the way to get started!
They will send you their DELUXE EMAIL CATALOGUE (around 525K-big and
juicey) !)...if you completely fill out the form above.  It has lists of
all the freebies, lists of all the titles they sell, titles broken down by
categories and detailed descriptions on nearly 1,200 of the titles that
they sell.
They then send you email  that outlines how his club works and the list of
free choices that you can choose from, as well as the entire list of what
he sells;  and then they will give you a quick (3-5 minute) friendly,
no-pressure no-obligation call to explain everything to you personally and
answer all your questions.
Once you get in, you'll love them. I do.
Sincerely,
Yoshio Koseki
ps.  please forward a copy of this message to all your friends on the net
who you think might be interested in it!  It is a great deal!  If you join
and then they join after you, you will earn a free 1 yr. subscription for
each new person you get to join after you join!   If you exceed 25
referrals, they let you use them to give away as gifts, for Christmas,
Chanukah or any other occasion.  Please be kind enough to mention my name
when you join.   I will then get a free magazine for a year for referring
you.
Thank you.
