	From a mathematical-analytical perspective, it would be well to 
follow back the numerical bases for this line of reasoning and worrying.  
If we were to do so, we would find something like a variation on Zeno's 
paradox, namely a kind of faulty reasoning and self-defeating paradigm.  
We also would find a misappropriation of data that was problematic to 
begin.  Rather than go into detail, please refer to the work of historian 
Kenneth W. Jones.  In particular, see his "Religious Identity and the 
Indian Census," in N. Gerald Barrier, ed., The Census in British India: 
New Perspectives (New Delhi: Manohar, 1981), 73-101; his "The Negative 
Component of Hindu Consciousness," Indo-British Review, 19, 1 (1991?), 
57-72; his chapter in Robert Frykenberg, ed., Delhi Through the Ages 
(Delhi: Oxford University Press, 1986).  In addition, there is relevant 
material in his volume in the New Cambridge History of India series, 
titled Socio-Religious Reform Movements in British India (Cambridge, 
1989) and in his early work Arya Dharm: Hindu Consciousness in 
19th-Century Punjab (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1976; 
repr. by Manohar in Delhi).
	Theodore Wright, Jr., also has a very useful article on the 
subject of communal fears based on census/population data, but at the 
moment the reference eludes me.
	In short, there is a wealth (or glut) of scholarly material 
relevant to the specific topic of birth-rate and to the more general 
theme of communalism.  For readers who are interested but have no 
background, I recommend The Politics on India since Independence by Paul 
Brass in the New Cambridge History of India series (2nd ed; Cambridge, 
1994) and Dutch scholar Peter van der Veer's Religious Nationalism: 
Hindus and Muslims in India (Berkeley: University of California Press, 
1994).  There are also several useful chapters by Daniel Gold and others 
in the volumes edited by Martin Marty and Scott Appleby in the so-called 
"fundamentalism" series  that has been published in recent years.
	Finally, sound scholarly work on this and closely related topics 
has been going on for at least three decades.  Some of the best current 
work, to which I would be glad to direct interested inquirers, is now 
being done by scholars in India, e.g., Gyanendra Pandey and others.  It 
is a vital and dangerous theme, and seems to me to call for measured 
doses of serious engagement along with light-hearted humor -- such as was 
contributed by N. S. Raja.
Gene R. Thursby
University of Florida
P.O. Box 117410, 125 Dauer Hall
Gainesville, FL 32611-7410  USA
