From y.r.rani at mail.utexas.edu  Tue Dec  5 06:08:07 1995
From: y.r.rani at mail.utexas.edu (y.r.rani at mail.utexas.edu)
Date: Tue, 05 Dec 95 00:08:07 -0600
Subject: Indian History & Sangh Parivar (Was: Medieval India)
Message-ID: <161227021949.23782.12996893380420605661.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

I apologize that the following message is a bit long and that this may not
be the proper forum, but, I would like to respond to a few comments:

The point of my interest continues to be the discussion of civilizational
relativity and the discursive use of various theories of cultural discourse
as well as our ubiquitous dependence on our occi-specific terminology in
the treatment of the development of Hindu Nationalism and the "Sangh
Parivar."

I, like S. Vidyasanka, was also offended by Mr. Ulrich's inference that
somehow the people in the "Asian region" vast and varied as that broad term
is, are somehow incapable of responsible government or democratic
institutions because they are ">heaps of silly, brainless people"

Ulrich also states:
>they are not longer to be banned but rewarded for being fascists.
Banning this increasingly popular, albeit far right-wing political party (a
qualified classification of a Cold War derived paradigm) will not make them
go away and indeed may give strength to the more radical elements.  Who,
BTW, would ban the main opposition party?  The Congress (I)?  That would
certainly be a silly sort of democracy!

In his response to my comments, Mr. Ulrich said "what kind of guy is
Ms.Rosser?" and then asks,
"NOT HAVING HAD ANY KIND OF FASCISM IN YOUR COUNTRY MISS ROSSER?"  It may
be the language barrier that causes Mr. Ulrich to refer to a "guy" as "Ms."
but, it is a cultural error to refer to an American woman, who at least has
the know how to turn on her computer and down load and send email and whom
you know absolutely nothing about, as "Miss."  This is a bit too
diminutive, and should be avoided unless you are intending to offend.
"Ms." is a far more appropriate term.  For all Ulrich knows, I could be a
happily married 65 year old grandmother.  Insult intended or not, this is a
good example of why we have to look carefully at words and ideas and
intensions as they transmit across cultures.

I seem to have raised the ire of the Voice of India representative.  He is
right, other of Elst's books are footnoted.  My point was that the
information in the book, "Negationism in India" is so hatefully delivered
that it is lost in the propagandist and mean spirited tone. Since the VOI
has requested that I do so, I will cite some examples.  One need not to
look too far into the book to see a viciousness that is neither good
scholarship nor good for long term political goals.
