JOB POSTING: South Asia
The following position announcement is being forwarded to your mailing
list or listserv from the ACADEMIC POSITIONS section of SARAI. Please
contact the announcers directly as below for any further information.
DO NOT SEND APPLICATIONS OR QUERIES TO ME.
David Magier
SARAI (http://www.columbia.edu/cu/libraries/indiv/area/sarai)
Announcement for Posting
Please share this with interested individuals. Questions may
be directed to Library Human Resources, (734) 764-2546, or
graylion at umich.edu
                                        UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
                                        UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
                                        ANN ARBOR, MI  48109-1205
                       ANNOUNCEMENT OF VACANCY
                      SOUTH ASIA BIBLIOGRAPHER
                AREA PROGRAMS, SOUTH ASIA DIVISION
DUTIES:  Under the supervision of the Head, South and Southeast Asia
Divisions, the South Asia Bibliographer is responsible for day-to-day
operation of the Division, including both technical and public services.
Primary responsibilities include:
* Selection of materials in all formats and languages relating to and in
  support of the University's South Asia program;
* Setting cataloguing priority for technical services and South Asia
  Division cataloguing staff;
* Providing reference services for South Asia studies;
* Outreach, including the maintenance of contacts with faculty and
  students affiliated with the Center for South Asian Studies, other
  interested academic departments, the local community;
* Fund raising and grant proposal writing;
* Contact with colleagues in the field.
In addition, depending on other qualifications, 35% of total time will be
given to responsibilities assigned in another area of the Graduate Library
or Area Programs, in such areas as technology support for the four Area
Programs units and selection in specific areas of religious studies,
social sciences, or history.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Required:  Graduate degree, either an MLS or MA/MS in an appropriate
subject area.  Solid working knowledge of at least two classical and/or
modern South Asian languages.  Working knowledge of bibliographic sources
and processes in South Asian studies.  Experience in the South Asia book
trade and western vendors of materials on South Asia studies.
Demonstrated ability to work effectively within a large, multicultural
organization.  Effective written and oral communication skills.
Desired:  Ph.D. in South Asia studies or a cognate field.  Knowledge of,
or academic background in, Buddhist or Islamic studies.  Experience in the
South Asia book selection, cataloguing, acquisitions, and/or reference in
a research library.  Knowledge of one or more Western European language.
Practical or research background cognate areas in religious studies,
social sciences, or history.  Technical services background related to
South Asia studies.  Substantial experience in computer technology,
particularly as it relates to non-roman script languages.  Supervisory
experience.
RANK, SALARY, & LEAVE:  Rank of Associate Librarian/Curator. Final salary
dependent on years of previous relevant professional experience. (Minimum
salary - $34,500); 24 working days of  vacation a year; 15 days of sick
leave a year with provisions for extended benefits.
RETIREMENT PLAN:  TIAA/CREF retirement plan; Fidelity Investments
TO APPLY:  Send cover letter & copy of resume to:  Lucy Cohen; Library
Human Resources; 404 Hatcher Graduate Library North;  University of
Michigan; Ann Arbor, MI  48109-1205
APPLICATION DEADLINE:  Applications received by 3/15/99 will be given
first consideration.
The University of Michigan is a non-discriminatory, affirmative action
employer.
