SV: SV: Sanskrit translations in Nazi hands
General remarks. Don't have time now. Must be done
for a PhD who knows Tamil, linguistics, Sanskrit extremely well.
Will give some pointers in the future also.
Tamil literature knows that Tamil and Sanskrit are at
the fountainheads of all of India's languages, at least
in 500 places in its 2300 (at a minimam) year history.
It does not know Hindi because it was not there then.
Malayalam did not exist, so not much talk about it also.
But it clearly knows that Telugu and Kannada are highly
related to it. Tamil literature even knows about today's
the divisions of Central and Southern Dravidian!!
For example, akanAnURu, a sangam text, says that
Telugu words are too long and hard to understand
(a pointer that Telugu is Central Dravidian and Tamil
is South Dravidian). On the contrary, kannaDa is
very close to Tamil and easily understandable,
because both kannaDa and tamizh are South Dravidian.
Check kalingattup paraNi (1080AD).
Have not read yet Jain maNipravALa works, sure more
linguistic nuggets can be unearthed. eg., mErumantara purANam.
Also, my reading of Tamil is little. My profession
is different.
Have had the privelege to move with Tamil & Sanskrit
pundits, when they came to my family or relatives, That's all.
BTW, I am very skeptical of your statements like
Sanskrit was borrowed into India with no Aryans moving
in. Previously, you often wrote that Tamil is called
Aryan language. I find no evidence for your statements.
If you ask me, did they classify IA-Dravidian like
in modern historical linguistics. They did not do
it obviously. But they have had a grasp of it for
atleast 2300 years.
More later,
N. Ganesan
<<<
If this is true, then Tamil linguists identified IA much earlier than
originally thought.  Even Sir William Jones was sketchy about the
relationship of Sanskrit to other Indian languages.  He denied that
Hindi was in any way related to Sanskrit, but otoh believed that most
of what is now known as Austronesian was related to the modern
Indo-European family. However, he believed that Malay, Afghan and Palavi
were related to Semitic.
Could you tell me which writers classfied the Indo-Aryan languages as
"Arya" and which languages were included in that classification?  Did
they consider Tamil as closely related to other Dravidian languages?
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
