Classical vs. Modern
Some members make it their mission to sing the glory of one language and one
culture (?), i.e. Tamil. The pathetic appeal of one list member to place
Tamil on the same footing as the Classical languages-- Sanskrit, Persian and
Arabic in India-- sounds ridiculous. Tamil is a modern language and not a
classical language. Classical lgs are not the mother tongues of any segment
of natives in India. In the western world, only Latin and Greek qualify as
classical languages. Classical lgs in India get much less support than
modern lgs. The modern lgs are encougared at the state as well as federal
levels. Modern lgs are used widely-- in education, media, administration,
etc. There are no films made in India in the classical lgs (only two or
three in Skt.). I do not know why some of these members childishly say that
more funds would come if Tamil were regarded a classical lg. You cannot
promote the interests of a lg through internet by quoting things from a lg
on every possible pretext. Those who have such love should have stayed back
in India instead of going for greener pastures in a foreign country and then
start doing this kind of propaganda ad nauseum. What are they gaining?
Members are having lot of fun from such postings. This trend has increased
recently. I urge upon such members to see reason and and exercise some
restraint in their postings. The limit was saying  that one particular book
must be sold cheaply in India because it made a guess that the Mohanjodaro
lg could be an early form of Dravidian. It was nothing more than a guess.
Scholars have speculated, writing volumes without proving anything. How
this appeal improves the cause or status of Tamil or Dravidian, God alone
knows. Isn't this too childish? My friends and compatriots, please stop
sending such postings which betray our ignorance. As an elderly person, I
think I have the right to correct my younger compatriots. Best regards,
Krishnamurti
Bhadriraju Krishnamurti
H.No. 12-13-1233, "Bhaarati"
Street 9, Tarnaka
Hyderabad 500017 (A.P.), India
Telephone:40-7019665
E-mail:<BHK at HD1.VSNL.NET.IN>
