The Aryans (again); 19th century discourse.
Re: The Aryans (again); 19th century discourse.
AC>>What is wrong with the view that the Europeans want us to believe
AC>>in AIT because it gives credence to the idea that India has always
AC>>been invaded and settled ?
YV>        Dear Ashish, thank you for so clear and honest formulation
YV> of  the concept which is really basic for your favourite
YV> Out-of-India "theory". But can not you see yourself that the
YV> concept which helds  that ALL Europeans are scoundrels and
YV> politically (or otherwise?)  biased falsifiers of facts, is
YV> racist? And it can not be a base for any scientific theory, but
YV> only for the racist, nationalistic propaganda.
YV>        What makes your words particularly insulting and unjust
YV> is that you mean by the wicked "Europeans" first of all
YV> Indologists - i.e. the people who devoted their lives to the
YV> study of India, the country they love.  And love quite
YV> disinterestedly, though I doubt you can believe it.
AC>>Where is the damn proof for AIT ?
YV>        If we change (which is absolutely necessary) the AIT for
YV> AMT (Aryan Migration theory) - the exhaustively full answer has
YV> been given in the last posting by R.Zydenbos. Such thing as AIT
YV> does not exist now (for several decades at least). Fighting with
YV> "AIT", you fight with Don  Quixote's windmills.
    The kind of diatribes and insults unleashed by a one-month old
    entrant to INDOLOGY is not anything new to Indians. In fact,
    this is only the tip of a massive iceberg that Indians have to
    endure and submit meekly for the last 3,200 years.
    For the last 3200 years, the civilization of India has been
    feeding itself on energy obtained through internal colonization.
    Every time new levels of technology and human conditions are
    reached elsewhere, it is employed with force in India to submerge
    the "little traditions". If viewed from this perspective, this
    is an ancient and (at the same time) an ongoing process.
    Now Indigenous Aryans call the two major language families as
    North Arya and South Arya!! Note that they hesitate to use the
    English usage 'Aryan'. This is because the 'n' ending is usually
    of Dravidian origins (cf. Jayavarman, Suryavarman in Southeast
    Asia as well). My studies convince me that Dravidian languages
    cannot be named as South Aryan or South Prakrits.
    Just as the British Imperialists are said to have wanted a
    commonness  to justify their ruling over an "alien" population,
    the Indian nationalit ideologues seem to want to take over and
    submerge the Dravidian identity for a political objective.
    A univerally valid scholarship on India capable of withstanding
    any scrutiny and not suited for just a particular group is
    appreciated. Bharatiyar, a great 20th century poet and freedom
    fighter, sang that  scholarship, if great, has to be accepted
    by the entire world.
    Have a happy 1999,
    N. Ganesan
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
