Kashmir, Tamilnadu, Panini, Abhinavagupta, etc.
Coincidently the same monk translated the lankavatara sutra.  He
was great  scholar but he was sent back to Khotan before he
finished the translation.
I what text?
as well as in the passage attributed to
His are ussually very free and populist translations. I do not think
he ever go to the details such asa chacking manuscripts at least
he never mention the sources of his work. As I remember he did
not mention it in the Avatamsaka you cite. ( he probably used the
Taisho version but he did not include the varients - there are many).
Mr. Cleary is perfect example of putting the source into mist. He
does not let you know the edition and manuscripts he was using (I
doubt he used any) and you will not know are the different readings
of various manuscripts from which some may not even contain the
passage you are using as a base. I am not a specialist in this
particular sutra. So I cannot tell you what manuscripts are there,
how old they are and how do they differ from the received version.
But if you want to claim that some sentence  was written in the 7th
century you cannot do it out of the received version that went
through centuries of rewritings full of mistekes of the scrribes. Very
often the commentary of some scribe was included into the original
text when being rewriten again, so you may be using some 15
century commentary that had found its way into the main text after
the original manuscripts were lost. These are just the cases I know
to appear very often in the old chinese writing, I do not know
anything particular about gandavyuha, you will have to contact the
scholar of this text to learn whether the Potalaka part you study
belongs to the early days layer of the Shikshananda version, that
can only be proved through the manuscripts. As the Avatamsaka is
one of the most (if not The Most popular sutra in Taiwan, there will
certainly be many critical editions and scholarly works on its
Shikshananda version. I hope I am less obscure now.
I am not following this thread very closely so I do not the points of
this discussions in its entirety. All I am trying to say here is that
texts significantly change wit time and unles we have the
manuscript of the apricular date we cannot claim the authenticity
out of the received version. If that is out of the point in this
particular discussion I apologize for stirring the water.
