Potala/Sriparvata
 I have been following the discussion of Potala/Sriparvata and I am
outraged at
 the obscurantist behavior of Sarma in this discussion.
 Hiding relevant information or presenting misleading information
seems to be
 the forte of Sarma. In a post on Fri, 22 Jan 1999, he said,
 "The "nallamala" range of hills in the telugu country extend right from
 ahObilaM-tirumala to zrizailaM-nAgArjunakoMDa. In dravidian "nalla"
 stands for good and "mala" stands for mountain. The word nalla has
 been sanskritised as "zrI" which can mean auspicious, mejastic or
 lovely. Thus the words "nallamala", "tirumala", "zrIzaila", "zrIgiri"
 "zrIparvata" are synonyms."
 Sarma pulled a fast one here. Conveniently, he resorted to a non-Telugu
 meaning of "nalla". In Telugu, "nalla" means "black/dark" and not
"good". To
 Telugus, "nallamala" means "black/dark mountain" and not "good
mountain".
 Since Sarma could not explain how a Telugu word meaning "black/dark"
can be
 Sanskritized as "zrI", he had manufactured a non-existent meaning.
 On 2/24/99  Sarma says,
 >Gaungming = bright
 >Here is the evidence that Sri parvata is the mountain that is being
referred
 >to.
 >According to MMR
 >Sri= to burn, flame, diffuse light, diffusing light or radiance.
 Sarma has fraudulently succeeded in transmuting a "black/dark"
mountain into a
 "bright" mountain. What a contrast!
 Earlier, when Chris Fernandez criticized Sarma's illogical and
prejudiced
 statements, Bijoy Misra said that Sarma "can't be as bad as is
depicted". Now,
 we see Sarma's full capabilities for committing intellectual fraud!
Moreover,
 his recent accusation regarding the hijacking of Nagarjuna had
exposed  his
 paranoia and ignorance of Andhra history. And he has the gall to
criticize
 others like S. Palaniappan whose analyses are well-regarded by genuine
 scholars on the list.
 Is it  too much to expect from list members who post, a modicum of
 1- logical rigor in argumentation,
 2- objectivity, and
 3- integrity?
 Best,
 Keith
DO YOU YAHOO!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com
