Kashmir, Tamilnadu, Panini, Abhinavagupta, etc.
At 05:53 AM 2/18/99 PST, you wrote:
Yes. I stand by the words I have written. The operative word in my
argument is "primarily". You cannot take a place which is not
originally a buddhist center and declare it to be Potala on the basis of
a Siva temple because of the requirement that it should be an abode of Tara
and Avalokitesvara. I do not think Buddhists visited Siva temples
in India equating them to temples of Avalokitesvara.
I have simply stated the various aspects of the problem of Lord Venkatesvara
of Tirupati and I said it represents many an enigma.
Avalokitesvara is Sunyavadin. Daskshinamurty is Brahamavadin.
Avalokitesvara is with Tara. Dakshinamurty is single.
Avalokitesvara speaks. Dakshinamurty is of maunavyakhya (these are differences).
I am not an expert in Iconography therefore I cannot say any thing about
that aspect.
In spite of your not liking it, it is a possibility and a strong one. That
is what I said.
There are no double standards. In case of Nagarjunakonda there is
no chance of submergence of the path by sea because it is landlocked
on all sides. In case Potala is taken to be Nagarjunakonda that possibility
does not arise. But in case of Malaya the possibility is there and
it has to be considered which will defeat the thesis and place Potala
out of Malaya. In order avoid it you have to ignore a possible thing
whereas what I ignored is an impossible thing.
Talking about double standards, firstly the contention was that there is
only one Potalaka. Then when it became clear that there were others
in Tibet and China, we now accept that there are others but still stick to
the idea that there is only one in India. Is there not a possibility that
Huan Tsang (assuming that his hearsay is correct) and Tarantha are talking
about different Potalas?
All this vehemence is not necessary in case your case is convincingly
presented. I can assure you that this vehemence will not force me to
accept what I think is not convincing.
I will very much appreciate if you can cease to attack people personally
and confine yourself to the topic under discussion. In case of Prof.Krisnamurti
also you attacked him for the things you thought he would have said. Do you
think that all this is necessary?
regards,
sarma
