From sogbs at CC.NEWCASTLE.EDU.AU  Wed Feb 24 08:01:18 1999
From: sogbs at CC.NEWCASTLE.EDU.AU (Geoffrey Samuel)
Date: Wed, 24 Feb 99 19:01:18 +1100
Subject: Potala(ka) etc
Message-ID: <161227046820.23782.14029673620157385681.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

This may be a little outdated now - I've had some trouble posting to
INDOLOGY, now resolved - but I'm sending it in case still of interest:

N. Ganesan referred to my earlier postings in relation to Potala(ka),
Tirupati etc. I have stayed out of the discussion since 1997 mainly because
of lack of time, but also because the issues are both political and
emotionally loaded for many participants, and intrinsically difficult to
decide. However, since 1997 I have been able to look at the book by D.C.
Ahir which was the source of the Crystal Mirror reference to Venkatesvar as
Potala, and also at some of the other authors (Jamanadas, Kulkarni) who
make strong claims for previous Buddhist identities of major South Indian
Hindu shrines (see list at end), and perhaps I can make some points at this
stage:

(1) It seems clear that Tamil Nadu and Kerala (and for that matter most of
present day South and East India) were not in any real sense "Hindu" before
around C4-C5 CE. By "Hindu" (I would really prefer a less loaded label such
as "Vedic-Brahmanical") I mean that a major ritual role in the community is
performed by Brahmin priests, and that Brahmanical values have a dominant
presence within the society as a whole. The extensive settlements of
Brahmins in South and East India from C4-C5 onwards is a dividing line
here. Before this time, the Vedic-Brahmanical complex was restricted mainly
to parts of present-day North India and Pakistan. The date may be arguable
- it was certainly earlier in e.g. parts of Andhra, and some individual
temples further south may have acquired Brahmin priests well before C4 -
but the process is not. It took place under the patronage of local rulers
and it was associated with the adoption of a Brahmanical ideology of
kingship and, I assume, with the installation of Brahmin priests at major
shrines of deities who were thereby progressively assimilated to
Brahmanical deities.

(2) There was a previous period during which South and East Indian rulers
patronised Buddhists and Jains. Presumably some at least of the major deity
shrines which go back to this period were for a while under Buddhist and
Jain management (this seems to have been the case at Kanchipuram, for
example) and the deities were given Buddhist or Jain identities during that
time. Some of these places may have been specifically Buddhist or Jain
foundations. But given the extent to which the deities of major temples
still today have local identities which are only partially assimilated to
Brahmanical mythology (a few S Indian examples are Minaksi at Madurai;
Cidambaram; Sucindram; the major Murugan temples etc etc etc), my guess is
that many of them pre-existed Buddhist and Jain influence in the region.
Their origins are presumably in local and regional cults for which we no
longer have direct evidence, scattered references in early Tamil literature
aside. As is probably clear from (1), I see no reason to call these cults
"Hindu".

