Chih Sheng (688-740 AD)
Dear Mr. Ganesan and Mr. Mares,
I was following your discussions with interest.
At 1:08 AM +0100 2/23/99, Petr Mares wrote:
I could find some (very) little references to Malaya and Potalaka in two of
the Catalogs compiled by Zhisheng.  It is not very difficult to find these
things when we can be helped by the Indices of Taisho...  In T. LV 2152 i
372b19-20   and T. LV 2154 ix 571b27-28, there is a biography of the Tantric
master Vajrabodhi (the two seem the same).  Zhisheng states at the beginning
of this biography that Vajrabodhi "comes from the country of Malaya, in the
South India".  Then in a note, he writes:  "The name of this country is
translated here [= in Chinese] 'guangming' [Shining light].  Near to this
country, there is the Palace of Avalokite"svara [in ?] the Mountain
Potalaka".  The same thing is repeated by a later compiler of Canon Catalog,
Yuanzhao, T. LV 2157 xiv 875a13-14.
That is all that I could find so far.
I often see this book in old book shops in Tokyo, but I don't have it.  Does
Mr. Ganesan read Japanese?  If not, how did he know what is written in this
book...??
I too think so.  The travel of Xuanzang was very well known so that it is
not surprising that he is quoted in this way.
But it is well known also that Chinese people in Tang period were in general
well aware of Indian things; it is not impossible that Zhisheng had some
more direct informations.
I have never heard of any doubt about the authenticity of the last part of
the travel of Xuanzang.  Wouldn't it that some of the descriptions found in
these fascicules are based on hearsay evidences, since Xuanzang never went
himself to some of the regions he describes (e.g. Malaku.ta, Malaya
mountain, Potalaka, among others), so that these informations are not very
reliable??
Best regards,
Nobumi Iyanaga
Tokyo,
Japan
Please note that my e-mai address has changed.
The new address is:
n-iyanag at ppp.bekkoame.ne.jp
The old address:
n-iyanag at ppp.bekkoame.or.jp
will not work after March 1999
My web site url has changed also.
The new url is:
http://www.bekkoame.ne.jp/~n-iyanag/
The old url:
http://www.bekkoame.op.jp/~n-iyanag/
will not work after March 1999
Thank you!
