Malaya location in 5th cent.
Dear Naga Ganesan
Thank You for the fast response. I wonder how somebody can write
that much that fast. Congratulation ;-)
That is what makes the thing much clearer as the Gunabhadra who
is the first person we are sure about to translate Lankavatara came
from Central or Southern India by boat through South China Sea..
Although I have no Idea about what place he may be talking about
(there is no Potala mentioned in the scripture so far as I know but
he may have been Dravida speaker.
(there may be one older translation of this scripture according to
the fifth century catalogues, that was brough by Dharmaraksha
from Gandhara to NW China, but we have no remains at this time)
I will have to go and see myself. I always felt affection for South
India and since the Arunaachala in Tiruvanamalai is in state of
disaster at the moment this may be a wonderfull pilgrimage related
to the scripture of life. I do not have the map here so I just wonder if
this is where Veerapan lives.
My trouble with the Sanskrit scriptures is their growing and changing with the time. If you come to
 Lankavatara of the Gunabhadra from 420A.D. and to the Lankavatara in Sanskrit as we have it now in
 its oldest manuscript. The Sanskrit is significantly bigger and differrent in many ways as the
people who were rewriting it always add something, changed or massed up.
According to my visits of South India I have a very strong feeling
this text either originated there or in some place of similiar
conditions.
Bodhidharma came to Canton from Tamil Nadu one century after
the Gunabhadra and start using this text to teach. But my question
is who brought and who compiled this scripture. And where? There
are 5th century buddhist sanskrit engravings in  Kedah in Malaysia
but is there anything such old related to Buddhism in Sanskrit
anywhere in South India?
Sincerely
Petr
Petr Mares
Lengqie Research
Hlavacova 1163
182 00, Prague 8
Czech Republic
Fax:420-2-2423-9157
email: lengqie at gmx.net
