Advaita-Chandran
On Sun, 28 Feb 1999, Ramakrishnan Balasubramanian wrote:
The prima facie interpretation of certain statements in the Upanishads may
appear closer to that of Shankara, no doubt, but it could hardly be said
that they are consistently so -- for instance, creation is consisently
described in such detail, and Mukhya PraaNa is lauded in several canonical
Upanishads, yet Shankara has no use for these concepts.
I fear the "sarcasm" and the "mystery" are all the work of the translator,
and not the original author.  I'd be careful about drawing inferences from
misinformed secondary sources.  I have seen the actual text and can quote
original statements.  Although it is without doubt that Sayana's intention
was ultimately to refute Madhva, there is no overt "sarcasm" to be had,
and he correctly quotes RV I.141-1, etc., as per Madhva's own statements.
And where exactly did Madhva say this?  Let's be specific, now.
However, should you care to note the sarva-darshana-saN^graha you referred
to above, you would observe that Sayana himself has quoted Madhva's
parama-shruti quotes in support of the latter's interpretation of the
`prapaJNcho yadi vidyeta' verse.  Clearly, Sayana had little reservation
about the veracity of the paramopanishhad; Sridhara Swami had none, for he
quotes it himself.  Both the parama-shruti and the brahma-tarka have been
accepted as Shruti and Smrti respectively by Madhusudana Saraswati, whose
opinion in this matter cannot be lightly discarded.  Several of Madhva's
"dubious texts" have also been quoted by Shankara (for ex.:
paiN^gi-shruti), Sureshvara (for ex.: bhAllaveya-shruti), etc.  Last but
not the least, "untraceable" quotes are not wanting in the works of
Shankara, etc., either.  I could find a dozen examples without breaking a
sweat.
Not exactly.  The original statement in this regard was by the late
Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya, who only said in his 1942 work that he had
been unable to trace the quotes in *printed texts* of the Garuda; this
point was later repeated by R.D. Karmarkar and T.M.P. Mahadevan in 1952
and 1953 respectively, without crediting the original source; also,
Karmarkar, et al. have given a very crass interpretation of Madhva's
statement that the Upanishad was revealed by `maNDUka-rUpI bhagavAn.h --
it can mean bhagavAn.h in the form of the sage maNDUka, rather than
bhagavAn.h in the form of the animal that is called maNDUka.  Clear
references to the sage maNDUka exist in the Atharva-veda (not some
untraced quotes by Madhva, but even as commented upon by Sayana), and a
Smrti composition by the same person (called a `shixA') in some 200-odd
verses was published in Lahore in 1921 (a later reprint is in my
possession).  Lastly, we must note that there is no obvious explanation
why the Upanishad would be called `mANDUkya', except by way of Madhva's
explanation -- unlike the IshAvAsya, kena, etc., the name cannot be traced
to its own contents.
A valid criticism, but not one that uniquely applies to Madhva's
tradition; others could also be similarly faulted.
Ghate's remarks have been reviewed by B.N.K. Sharma in his `History of the
Dvaita School', to which attention may be drawn in this regard; a complete
picture cannot be formed without hearing both sides.  I have carte blanche
from Dr. Sharma to quote his works in any amount, but would like to avoid
taking advantage of his kind offer; if you have real difficulty laying
hands on the HDSV, I will give highlights of the relevant portion.
His analysis is interesting, but at least in his thoughts re the mANDUkya,
the contents thereof are not beyond dispute.  As for the rest, the term
`vedAnta' is interpreted as referring to the Upanishads, or as coming at
the "end of the Vedas," only by the Advaitic tradition, so his criticism
of that view only applies to them.
 > Even then Madhva is probably an extreme in the spectrum because he
It would be as well if you would at least make the effort to stick to
facts and first-hand sources; speculating based on uninformed latter-day
ones is hardly well advised.
All right, I'm calling your bluff.  Where did Madhva say that?  Madhva did
quote what is said to have been an ancient Pancharatra commentary on the
Bhagavata, called the `tantra-bhAgavata', and this text is also quoted
from by Sridhara Swami and Jiva Goswami.  No other full-scale gloss is
referred to, and its authorship is not stated.
Regards,
Shrisha Rao
