A text dealing with Ayurveda
On 24 Apr 99, at 10:11 Ferenc Ruzsa wrote:
I think "will" is explicitly denied of the puruza itself already in the
kArikA, when the puruza is styled *madhyastha* (19) and above all
*udAsIna* (20).
What is agency otherwise than "in the crude material sense"? If
you mean that the puruza, though not actually involved in
performing the action, nevertheless "wills" it, this is explicitly ruled
out by so early a commentary as GauDapAda's, which introduces
k. 20 raising the objection: il the puruza is not agent, then how can
he resolve to opt for the good and renounce the bad? The reply is
that the puruza's awareness accrues to nature by contiguity, and
thus "guNA adhyavasAyam kurvanti na puruzaH".
I do not think it is fine to call "a conscious motive source of our
actions" will: will is rather our response to a "motive", which is
different from a "cause" exactly in that it acts through
consciousness and not merely through mechanism.
Now, the puruza merely supplies the "awareness" element by his
sinergy with nature; but it is nature herself who supplies the
"deliberation" or adhyavasAya element, and so it is nature who is
agent even in this "refined" sense.
In fact, the puruza is content with merely consciously witnessing
the both practical and purposeful activity of the evolutes, just as a
mendicant ascetic witnesses the purposeful and practical activity
of the peasants tilling the soil among whom he happens to walk
without any involvement whatsoever (the simile is GauDapAda's).
It is not right to take the non-simultaneous actions in k. 18 as
implying activity on the part of the puruzas. If you do, by the same
reason you could likewise argue that birth, death etc. that are
mentioned earlier in the same k. are also predicable of the different
puruzas, which is evidently not the case. As birth and death, non-
simultaneous actions also are predicable of the different individual
aggregates, enabling to infer different puruzas, who do not have to
be born, die, or act themselves for the argument to hold.
Paolo Magnone
Catholic University of Milan
pmagnone at mi.unicatt.it
http://www.agora.stm.it/P.Magnone/jambu.htm
