Book review: Indus Age- the Writing System by              GregoryL.Possehl.
Bo Klintberg wrote:
I never said that ALL Indo-Europeans migrated. If I were to be more precise, the only
logical consequence of supposing a "homeland" is that, seen over a period of several
thousand years, MOST  Indo-European peoples have been involved in migration one way or the
other. But most INDIVIDUAL Indo-Europeans have not migrated.
If I may put this in slightly humerous language: we can observe, that as soon as the Light
of History hits Eurasia, tribes and armies crisscross the continent almost with the
regularity of inter-city trains. Now, you seem to assume that as soon as the Light of
History is turned off, everybodys sits down and eats his agricultural oatmeal porrige and
doesn't budge until the Light of History is turned on again. However, migrations can be
predicated on a number of factors: climatic changes, problems with soil quality,
overpopulation, war etc. all of which could easily happen at any time during prehistory, and
which archaeology sometimes seem to indicate have really happened. Therefore, assuming
migrations during prehistory on the basis of what we can observe in historical times is not
such a bad idea. I will not concede that you have weakened my argument.
Hm. I would say that this argument has an inherent weakness: Much depends upon what the
drunks are saying. If we assume that your New York drunk has been talking to a rather tipsy
Einstein who claims that energy equalsh the shpeed of light multi-ti-plied by massh in the
shecond po-potency, then your drunk is absolutely correct. And what about a self-realized
sage claiming that the moon wanes because it is being swallowed by Rahu? Does he really know
what he's talking about? Of course, I agree that some witnesses are more reliable than
others, but in my book, men of religion do not rank highly on the reliability scale. On a
number of occasions, I would prefer a drunk New Yorker to a sober man of the cloth.
Ah, but you can draw some conclusions. You can draw the conclusion that the absence of a
piece of information PROVES nothing because it opens up the possibility of at least two
answers to the problem. And you would be surprised to see how often this is forgotten in
scholarly debates.
Respectfully,
Lars Martin Fosse
