varna and jati
Sameer Abbas writes :
Chanakya the brAhmana deposed off the Nanda kings of Shudra origin to
install Chandragupta as the new emperor. So what was Chandragupta's caste -
Shudra!
So that they could cut their own throats? History also shows that the
Moslems targeted the brahmins specifically, as they formed the top caste,
who kept the flame of Hinduism burning strong.
And what would they gain by such motives. It couldn't be for money, as they
were anyhow poor and had voluntarily renounced wealth.
? http://www.khalistan.net/gskhalsa.htm
The only reason that brahmins came to power under the Brits was that they
were both educated and honest. Plus they were the traditional leaders of the
community.
But even the resistance movement against the Brits, was for most part led by
the brahmins - Gokhale, Tilak, Subramaniya BhArati, Nehru etc
And not all brahmins used peaceful methods. VAnjinAthan, who is still hailed
in Tamil Nadu for assassinating the British collector Ash, was a brahmin. So
were quite a few MaharAshtrian revolutionaries who paid with their lives for
such daring attempts.
I'm sure it is!
You should read the works of Sage VidhyAranya, who organized the Vijayanagar
empire as the Hindu bastion against the invading hordes of Islam and get his
opinions on the subject!
In the first place, the battle wasn't between the Nizam and a few low caste
Telugus. Newly independent India wanted to annex Hyderabad and those Telugus
who supported it came from all castes.
And the two Shankara mutts of the South are in Kanchi and Shringeri, quite a
distance from Hyderabad. How could they have collaborated with the Nizam?
And what would they gain from such collaboration?
I'm from Tamil Nadu. I would be more comfortable with a Tamil speaking
person, whichever caste he might belong to, whichever color he might be -
since I share more things in common with him culturally - than any European
or Muslim, whatever their 'color' might be!
As Conon Doyle or Agatha Christie, point out : In all situations, look for
the people who benefit most - in most cases they are the culprits.
And I don't see any benefit to the brAhmana, in any of these situations.
Get Free Email and Do More On The Web. Visit http://www.msn.com
