Dr. Rajraram and Dr. Jha: Vedic Glossary of Indus Seals
Dear Listmembers,
Dr. Rarajaram permitted to post this response to Mr. Sunderesan's posting
(see below) with the note that 'It is an informal response (sent to me
initially)' and not a well articulated text book one."
Sincerely,
Vishal
Dr. Mr. Agarwal
In my review of Talageri's book, I applauded the author's boldness and
originality in recognizing that Vedic Civilization had eastern contribution
also, but also stated that he ovestates his case. I specifically criticized
his chronology which is based on 1400 BC date for the Mahabharata. His
chronology is emphatically wrong. In any event, his methodology, which is
based on linguistic and literary analysis, cannot be used for chronological
decisions. At the same time, it is fair to add that Talageri himself, when I
brought up the issue with him, admitted that his book was not concerned with
chronology.
  Jha and I do not use Talageri's work in our decipherment. Decipherment is
a highly technical problem that cannot be based on the kind of general
linguistic and/or anthropological approaches favored by most Indologists.
Jha uses comparative palaeography and the Vedic glossary Nighantu, as well
as my recognition of the Harappa-Sulba sutra connection. In addition, I have
introduced a palaeographic interpolation technique which allowed me to
decipher the 'world's oldest writing'.
  All these are quite technical and work in the context of the Harappan
script. We do not claim that they work for all scripts.
  As far as our chronology is concerned, the sheet anchor is the
Harappa-Sutra-Sumeria equation, which is presented in detail in 'Vedic
Aryans and the Origins of Civilization' by Rajaram and Frawley (Voice of
India, New Delhi). We do not use the Puranic chronology because it does not
give us an absolute reference.
Sincerely,
N.S. Rajaram
Re: Dr Rajaram and Dr. Jha: Vedic Glossary of Indus Seals
Dear Sri. Agarwal,
In one of Rajaram's web pages, he wrote an applauding review
of Shrikant's work which seems to say that Aryan homeland is
modern UP, then the vedic Aryans were spreading from there
out west, quoting several puranic materials.
Is the chronology outlined in the puranas, the basis for saying
Sindhu-Sarasvati civilation is Vedic Aryan? Did Rajaram use
Shrikant's findings to decipher the oldest writing
from Sarasvati delta as Vedic Aryan?
Thanks,
SM
Get Free Email and Do More On The Web. Visit http://www.msn.com
