Trilingual inscriptions from Lanka
nanda chandran <vpcnk at HOTMAIL.COM>
There is a difference between that and a willingness to go out and kill one
another. After all in 1950 there had been very little, if any, killing on
communal lines for at least 150 years and probably much longer.
But I agree that there were underlying problems of attitude (on both sides).
I do not hink that the status of the Tamil language was the primary problem
_at that time_. Rather it was the fact that the removal of English as the
language of administration also removed the built-in advantage of the
Tamils.
Yes, I agree.
Quite true. But it is equally true to say that 'Hinduism' wasn't born in
the land and may well have arrived after Buddhism and Jainism. Certainly
much of it did. (I don't of course doubt for a moment that much Tamil and
Sinhala religious practice is indigenous and long antedates the arrival of
both Hinduism and Buddhism.)
It is difficult to know whether or not one or more of Buddhism, Jainism,
Ajiivikas and others was ever dominent. My guess is that it probably varied
greatly at different times and places within the Tamil country. I don't
doubt that the ordinary religious practice always continued. The kind of
theism we see later is surely an introduction from north India.
No, one can't. But I wonder how influential it was in general ?  More to
the point, it is strong evidence that there was something there to attack.
Had it been an insignificant minority why would they have bothered ?
Of course, there was friction and sometimes conflict. Whenever extemists of
any stripe get political influence, there will be problems. But that doen't
mean there are problems all the time.
These two statements do not appear to be connected.
Yes, I was referrring to that sort of time.
I do not know the current situation, but offhand this seems surprising. As
I recall it, the majority of the Tamil population was in the so-called
Sinhalese areas. Are you sure that this is not an exaggeration ?
The obvious examples are Adam's Peak and Kataragama.
MANCHESTER, UK
CURRENT EMAIL ADDRESS:
Email: L.S.Cousins at nessie.mcc.ac.uk
