Gentoo studies
On Sun, 23 May 1999, Michael Witzel wrote:
Switch to Linux!
Much appreciated, and apologies for the delayed response; a minor injury
had me unable to operate a keyboard well until recently.
If that be a consideration, then the same criticism could be made of any
work whatsoever, that it was only a document for its own time, rather than
an aid to understanding the RV.  The criticism you make of Yaska would
certainly apply with full force to all, including yourself.  Thus, no
honest understanding of the RV itself would be possible, and only
illegitimate positions relating to various times could be held by all.
All well and good, I'm sure.
There are several unwarranted assumptions made: that the Vedas can be
accurately dated to a certain time, that anything that comes after this
accurate date is of limited value, that the Brahmanas are not part of the
Vedas themselves, and that interest in ritual is a limitation.  I will
deal primarily with the second of these here.
The blame for that can be placed on the faulty paradigm that you are
attempting to use, under which, nothing indeed can ever be known about the
meaning of anything in the RV.  More on this below.
A gross oversimplification, but we won't press it.
Why, doesn't
  itihAsapurANAdervedamUlatvakAraNAt.h  |
  prAmANyaM nAnyathA tasya prAmANyamupapadyate  ||
  (Sureshvara, bR^ihadvArtika II-4-319)
sound sensible?  Then one is obliged to note that should you choose to say
that the smR^iti is untenable in this context for reason of being
post-Vedic, then one needs must observe that *you*, being post-Vedic, can
say nothing about the Vedas either.  Your mode of reasoning therefore
violates your own locus standi in the matter -- apa-siddhAnta-doshha.
There thus has to be some better means of judging the worth -- or lack
thereof -- of statements, than their being "biased by timeframe" (which in
any event has not been established by you or agreed upon by us, and is
thus unavailable as an axiom of inference).
Furthermore, if it be the case that texts later than the Vedas are
suspect, then the Vedas must be completely opaque to us, since no possible
direct knowledge of them could exist now, given the efflux of time, and
since anything that came in between would be ruled out by your paradigm.
Hence, it is hardly a surprise that you find it difficult to interpret
their statements; that you have any knowledge of them at all could only be
because you have not adhered to the rigor of your own paradigm.
Before we go any further, let us also note in passing that difficulty with
the understanding of the RV has been noted in the RV itself; Sayana cites
`ko addhA veda ka iha pravochaddevAM achchhA patyA kA sameti' (somewhere
in maNDala X, I believe; I can get the exact reference if you're
interested) which is commented upon by him as `kaH vA addhA satyabhUtaM
tAdR^ishamarthaM veda vetti?  kaH vA iha asmin.h praj~nAtamarthaM pra
vochat.h pra bravIti?  kiM tattaduchyate?', etc.
Thus it is that:
  yadi vidyAt.h chaturvedAn.h sAN^gopanishhadAn.h dvijaH  |
  na chetpurANaM saMvidyAnnaiva sa syAdvichaxaNaH  ||
It is manifestly accurate even from experience, and attempts to outlaw it
have serious logical deficiencies.
Difficulties with the texts of the Mahabharata are very well documented
and have existed for centuries; however, this is quite obviously not
unique, and not pertinent here.  By the standard you have set for
yourself, no one could possibly know what a Vedic *anything* was, even if
the same anything exists with the same name now.  Any standard that makes
such a sweeping dismissal cannot be considered a serious barrier to the
Mahabharata.
Good for Dr. Hoffman, and for you, too, but one wonders what crystal ball
he used to make his determination.
The keyword there is "fruitless."  Under your paradigm, there can be no
understanding of the RV.  Period.
If that be used as an assumption in dating the various texts involved,
then it cannot also be offered as a fact arising from said dating.  There
is a circularity involved in doing so.
Does it?  Let's look at just one "epithet" of the RV, shall we?  What is
the RV's word for "author"?  That's the sixty-four dollar question here.
If you're translating `R^ishhi' as "author," then one cannot agree; the
Nirukta says `R^ishhadarshanAt.h', pointing to the R^ishhi being "one who
sees."  And obviously, `darshanaM cha pUrvasiddhasya bhavati; na hi yo
yat.h karoti sa tat.h pashyatIti uchyate!'  Also see Shankara's comment on
`ata eva cha nityatvam.h' in this regard.
Your argument about the RV's "authors" is thus without value.  Further,
said argument has been rebutted in the RV itself, as I pointed out on
March 5.  Last but not the least, one notes that my original point was
about the lack of understanding of the concept, whether one accepts it or
not; your criticism does not demonstrate understanding, but only
uninformed dismissal, which only strengthens what I was saying.
By Sayana, yes, but also by Shankara, Ramanuja, Anandagiri, and Madhva, to
name a few.
There's been more gobbledygook written about the purushha-sUkta than
almost anything in the world, but that's a separate issue, which we don't
need to get into here.
Regards,
Shrisha Rao
