Gentoo studies
On May 5, 1999, Robert Zydenbos <zydenbos at BIGFOOT.DE> wrote:
The ones I have some familiarity with are `Epithets in the Rgveda', `Change
and Continuity in Indian Religion', and `Aspects of Early Visnuism'.
However, to assume that a grounding in Greek, Latin and Avestan is much or
all of what it takes to make pronouncements re, e.g., the Rg Veda, is more
than we can agree upon, at least at this point.  Even if Gonda "went
straight to the Vedas," he did not "go" to any classical scholar of the
Vedas and get trained, and because he had not studied them and their
ancillaries himself, was obliged to draw upon many writings of other
"Western" scholars, who also, it turns out, did not have have a grounding in
classical Vedic studies.  Thus my observation that the setting up of a faux
"version of scholarship," as originally observed of Frawley, et al., by
another writer, was also a valid accusation in re Gonda, et al.
They certainly are such a clique, and they're probably not at all qualified,
we can agree.  However, I hold no brief for them, as I previously stated, so
let's stick to Gonda, et al. for the moment.  Even if there are other
ignoramuses, it does us no good to simply point to their warts and ignore
our own.
Certainly.
Well, if Gonda had been merely content to study the RV from the perspective
of IE studies or such, and leave aside all social aspects arising out of it,
or presumed in it, etc., the location of his "armchair" would perhaps not be
as critical, although I would not call it insignificant.  It is common
knowledge in academia that one needs to go through a period of
apprenticeship and interaction with senior scholars in order to gain
scholarly maturity, and I doubt there was a community of RV scholars located
in the vicinity of Gonda's armchair in Utrecht.  However, even ignoring this
point, Gonda's writings in "Change and Continuity of Indian Religion" are
certainly concerned with contemporary Indian society, and I do not accept
that Gonda's having no first-hand feel for his subject would be a negligible
circumstance.
Regards,
Shrisha Rao
