Historicity of The Flood
Many thanks to Paolo Magnone for his rational and helpful critique of my
"list of similiarities" (in the message of 11 June 1999). Here are my answers
to some of his remarks:
Paolo Magnone:
 The difference which you stress is the difference in religious ideology.
Even one and the same archaic myth can be filled in different historical
period with different ideological contents. But the structure of the plot
remains often the same. In the common protoform of both Mesopotamian and Indian
myth the hero was, I believe,  no *pious* and no *innocent* man, but rather
*a man who helped a mysterious animal/fish/god-in-disguise* (a "grateful
animal" motif).
        The Indian myth by its archaic plot-structure is much closer to the
Mesopotamian myth, than, e.g., to the Austro-Asiatic versions where brother
and sister escape in a hollow pumpkin, and to numerous other flood myths all
over the world.
Paolo Magnone:
    In the Sumerian Flood story (line 70 [259 - in Lambert & Millard,
Atra-Hasis, Oxford, 1969]) - it is said that Ziusudra "saved the seed of
mankind"; in the Akkadian poem of Gilgamesh (XI.27) the god orders
Ut(ta)-napizti "to take the seed of all souls into the ship" (the late
Igor M.Diakonoff in his poetic Russian translation wrote "take aboard
everything living", but gave this literal translastion in his commentary).
    As for the appearance of the "seeds" in the late Indian versions of the
Flood myth, mythic narratives sometimes revive or reveal somehow the motifs
of hoary antiquity which seem to have been present in them during the
centuries in some latent form. I am sure you are well acquainted with this
phenomenon.
        It could be. e.g., a great tree, like in the Markandeya myth or in some
South-East Asian Flood stories; or the water could sink at all, by itself or
by the will of god - and so on.
P.Magnone:
        In spite of your brilliant "ritual" interpretation of the IDA
episode, it still seems to me to be rather obscure and unnatural as a
narrative sequence. In any such case it is normal to suggest that we deal
with some archaic motif, misunderstood and misinterpreted. I still think
that the archaic narrative sequence "the sacrifice of the Flood-survivor
reached the gods" (the heritage of the "substratum" myth^ probably) could
very well be reinterpreted by the authors of the ZatBr in the light of their
contemporary "theory" of ritual.
           See the relevant chapter in the "Folklore in the Old Testament"
by good old J.G.Frazer.
       Many thanks again. I shall duly think over all your other suggestions.
I am sorry that my answer took too many screens. I can only save on my other
postings this month.
        Best regards,
                                        Yaroslav Vassilkov
