One Year Term Position at University of Manitoba (Religion)
                        The Department of Religion
                        The University of Manitoba
                          One Year Term Position
The Department of Religion at the University of Manitoba is pleased to invite
applications for a one-year term appointment at the rank of Instructor I. The
appointment will extend from September 1, 1999 to August 31, 2000. The salary
for this position is $32,384.00 [Canadian]. The areas of specialization are:
Hinduism/World Religion. The successful candidates must have a Ph.D. by the
commencement of the appointment.
The successful candidate for this position must have specialization and a record
of publications in Hinduism and demonstrated teaching competence in Hinduism and
World Religions. Duties include 18 Credit Hours teaching (two sections of 20.132
*Introduction to World Religions* and one section of 20.266 *Religions of Indian
Origin*). The Department is seeking a strong teacher with successful experience
teaching *Introduction to World Religions* and other courses with an Indian
religion and culture focus. Experience teaching Women and Religion courses will
be an asset.
The Department of Religion at The University of Manitoba offers undergraduate
Majors and Honors, M.A. and Ph.D. programs. Normal teaching load for Instuctor
positions is 18 Credit Hours per week.
The University of Manitoba encourages applications from qualified women and men,
including members of visible minorities, aboriginal peoples, and persons with
disabilities. Women are particularly encouraged to apply. In accordance with
Canadian Immigration requirements, this advertisement is directed to Canadian
citizens and permanent residents.
Application, curriculum vitae and three letters of reference should be sent to
Dr. Dawne McCance, Head, Department of Religion, 327 Fletcher Argue, The
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3T 2N2.
Closing date for receipt of applications and letters of reference is 29 June,
1999.
