Historicity of The Flood
In reply to Yaroslav V. Vassilkov's message of 10 Jun 99, 13:09:
You overlook the paramount difference here: in Mesopotamian
myths, the pious man is, above all, an innocent man. Gods hate
humanity on account of some transgression and decide to
annichilate it. Indeed, one of the most prominent features in the
Mesopotamian myth is the ethical context and the structure: crime
- punishment - reconciliation, which is conspicuous for its absence
in all Indian versions which I know about (except for a faint shade in
a couple of quite late developments).
What version are you referring to? As far as I know, near-eastern
versions do not typically mention "seeds", but couples, or in any
case "complete" beings. In Uta-napiStim's account, seeds are
mentioned together with gold, silver, kinsmen, servants, craftsmen,
beasts and cattle. On the other hand, there are no seeds nor any
survivors apart from Manu in the most ancient Indian version, that of
ZBr, which should accordingly be closer to the near-eastern
prototype. The reason is plain to see: Manu has got to procreate all
alone, by dint of zrama and sacrifice according to the usual
brahmanical pattern. Likewise, when seeds do appear, in later
versions, there is no need to conjure up far-reaching connections
with Sumer-Akkad: they can be much better explained with the
Indian notion of zeSa which plays an all-important role in pratisarga
myths (under which heading the deluge myth belongs).
Number 7 is usually deemed to be of near-eastern origin; however,
in India it becomes more and more prominent as time progresses.
It is particularly at home in puranic cosmography (7 dvIpas, 7
lokas, 7 pAtAlas, 7 suns + 7 clouds at doomsday), whereas, if I
am not mistaken, it is comparatively rare in vedic literature (e. g.,
tripartite cosmography). There is no 7 in the most ancient Indian
account of the flood, that of ZBr.
What else is left, when the low lands are flooded?
This is an example in point, showing to what extent "material"
similarities can be misleading. The import of near-eastern sacrifice
fluctuates between thanksgiving and propitiation. In the Uta-
napiStim account it brings out the dependence of the gods on
human sacrifice and thus effectively seals the reconciliation
between gods and men. The sacrifice plays no part in the
propagation of creatures: obviously, the surviving couples will take
care of it in the usual way.
On the other hand, in the ZBr version it is Manu's procreative
concern that prompts the sacrifice. When the flood is over, there is
no need to appease the gods, because there was no fault to
expiate, and the flood itself was no vengeance, but a due event in
the course of things (although in the ZBr an explicit cyclic context
is still missing). The outcome of the sacrifice, i. e. IDA, the
quintessence of sacrifice, is not "offered" to the gods. Mitra-VaruNa
do not even know who she is, and hearing the she is Manu's
daughter, try to appropriate her: "say you are ours!" but she
refuses, and goes to Manu. Here it is the self-sufficient power of
sacrifice as man's inalienable property that is extolled, pursuant to
the brahmanical ideology of the preeminence of sacrifice. In
subsequent versions, the sacrifice no longer fulfilled any essential
task in the matsyAvatAra myth, and was accordingly dropped.
I would like to have references on this.
Of course, I do not mean to deny that some theme borrowing
could, and therefore might, have occurred. My contention is only,
that the extant Indian accounts appear right at the outset so
thoroughly indianized, i. e. an integral part of contemporary Indian
culture, that they do not warrant hypotheses of borrowing.
Similarity of *alien* structural elements -- such as the motif of the
jealous god -- or contrariwise of *casual* non-structural elements --
such as the motif of the birds (whether they be two or more) --
would provide a clue towards borrowing: but, as I have tried to
show, I do no think that such similarities really obtain.
Paolo Magnone
Catholic University of Milan
pmagnone at mi.unicatt.it
Jambudvipa - Indology and Sanskrit Studies
http://www.agora.stm.it/P.Magnone/jambu.htm
