CSX+ fonts & cross-platform email exchange
Robert Zydenbos <zydenbos at BIGFOOT.DE> wrote:
Eudora Light (Mac) has the AppleDouble option, it does the same
trick, UUencoding is available. I will try.
Actually I was thinking in this direction already, but I'm not too
familiar with all the encoding and compression formats. Thanks a lot!
I will try and let you know, but unfortunately that won't be
before late next week as I'm short of fursat right now.
Another probable solution I had in mind is to write a "transliteration
table" for use in Eudora that reverses the re-encoding of text.
But that doesn't seem like a very elegant solution to me. A general
text converter might be better.
No, this didn't work, RTF's are recognised as text files by Eudora
and are converted.
Ferenc Ruzsa <f_ruzsa at ISIS.ELTE.HU> wrote:
Hmmm, I tend to agree with you in the spirit, but how dare you say
such a thing in plain public in a war prone environment?  ;-)
Lars Martin Fosse <lmfosse at ONLINE.NO> wrote:
No experience, but as an OS it should be OK. The lack of an easy user
interface is an other story. However, within a year from now we may
expect to see Apple's flavour of Unix (Mac OS X Consumer), including
the trusted graphical user interface.
John Smith <jds10 at CAM.AC.UK> wrote:
Can you easily exchange Tex documents with Windows and MacOS
users?  I guess you can, but please tell.
Sure, TeX is quite powerful and nice as a typesetting program. But as
far as I can see it takes a -lot of extra- effort, and also it is not very
transparent when it comes to editing text. Also the overhead of all the
software components, font utilities, and knowledge you need. This
may be acceptable for compositors, but in word processing this extra
effort should (and soon can) be kept under the hood.
I hope and pray the suffering will come to an end within one or two years
when native Unicode operating systems with real Unicode based word
processors and database applications should be in place.
BTW, John, last year in Conv-Dev you mentioned ACII.  You said: "ACII
is the name used for the full 8-bit character set comprising 7-bit ASCII
in the lower half and 7-bit ISCII in the upper half."
Is this charset in use anywhere? I can't imagine reasonable Nagari
coming out from a 7-bit subset.
Thanks all,
Jaap Pranger
