Dravidians and Sergent
Michael Witzel wrote:
In principle, Michael is of course right: the rigorous use of the comparative method may in principle take us further back than we have come so far. My scepticism is due to the fact that this very rigor seems to get frayed at the edges when we move beyond the single families to create superfamilies. At least this is the impression I get when I see Nostraticism in practice. And I am not alone in my sceptical attitude: Dixon in his "Rise and Fall of Languages" expresses a similar scepticism not to mention a bunch of Indo-Europeanists. I suppose I shall simply have to live with the fact that Ruhlen disagrees with me. The point in my opinion is this: as languages move apart through time, the number of ancient elements that can be compared becomes smaller and smaller. I suspect that at some critical point it sinks below the limit for randomness, in other words: similarities may equally well be explained by chance as by historical relatedness (or as Michael says: any 50 words in any language can be compared with any 50 other in any other language.) This is when comparisons cease to be meaningful, and I think it is a matter of importance to scholars to learn how to decide when they are about to go off on a wild goose chase where good, well-documented results simply will not be forthcoming. Research is a precious thing, but some research simply seems to be a waste of time and money. 
    Fixing a limit for randomness, in other words, deciding when to quit a research project because it will not produce meaningful results, is of course difficult. There is no absolutely foolproof formula. But I think that responsible scholars will have to think about this because it concerns us all and the status of our science. 
I was not really thinking about what Michael said regarding sounds, I just wanted to give a simple illustration of a linguistic element that has survived for an incredibly long time. But Michael are of course right that some sounds are more stable than others. HOWEVER: "more stable" is a relative concept, and the stability is not rulebound, it is only a statistical phenomenon. Which somehow reduces the value of this insight in practical situations where documentation is weak. 
In principle I agree with this, at least up to a point: the itchy word is of course "proof". Having seen the word "proof" turn up in a large number of contexts where it doesn't really belong, I would prefer to turn to the concept of probability. Some things can't be proven without proper historical documents, and since there are no historical documents to help us here, we are forced to rely on probabilities. Now, here is a piece of elementary logic: probabilities NEVER prove anything. If I say "there is a 99% probability that A = B", then I have NOT proved that A = B. I have just given a probability, although a very high one. In practical life, we would act upon such a probability, in fact we usually rely upon far worse probabilities when making informed choices or guesses. The "general theory" cannot be proven.  But common sense may still uphold it. 
The interesting question here is of course if such similarities are due to area linguistics or genetics. And they MAY still be due to chance.... :-)
I think such cooperation is a prerequisite for making progress, and before we have learned to do it properly, we will all screw up sooner or later. Probably sooner.  But it is worth trying.
Best regards,
Lars Martin Fosse
