A Response:
On the basis of one or two or even a few linguistic terms, it is not only unfair to
decide upon the origin of drama/natya but is a wrong methodology to explore the origins.
It has been suggested by those who were anxious of tracing the Greek origins of Indian
drama that hallisaka , could have been derived from "hellas" (like the "yavanika"). And
that is as good a guess as its hypothetical linkage to dravidian tongues.  Even in
modern Hindi and Gujarati, hil,hilana,hale, all  mean movement (and could have come from
dravida bhashas). But is that enough to decide about  the origins of a dance form ?
 Perhaps modern linguistic methodologies and even ancient method of vyutpattih are not
sufficient to trace the origin or shaping of an art form. An art form is not merely a
name but is a living form, a sharira. Its name alone cannot decide its origin. Many
Indian communists have named their daughters Natashas and many sikhs are called  Amrika
Singh. A tenuous link is not an origin.
Hallisaka is a minor dance genre, not a rupaka of substantial standing not even part of
the ten rupakas enunciated by Bharata Muni in the Natyashastra.  Can a mere dance step
contribute towards the development of a major art like theatre? Hallisaka might have
been a Dravida or Greek dance but its presence alone does not give Greek or Dravidian
origins to Inian Theatre and Natya.
Theories of origin are themselves suspect as they imply "first use credit" which is
impossible to establish in art and culture born of interchange. The ancient were wiser
in atributing the first use to gods than to races or cultures.
In terms of distinguishable features in the art of theatre, music and dance, such as the
technology of musical instruments and musical grammar, the most ancient location of the
practice of Indian drama, music and dance seems to have been the Gandhara region or
modern Afghanistan, as evidenced from the Brahmanas, the epics, and the Natyashastra.
The same affinity in the performing arts in terms of musical grammar, theatrical
expressions, musical scales of rural songs and general art aesthetics exists even now
from Greece to Assam, the South of India included (where a remarkable improvisation has
happened since medieval times).
Bharat Gupt
Associate Professor, Delhi Univ.
PO BOX 8518 , ASHOK VIHAR , DELHI 110052 , INDIA
tel:724-1490 , fax 741-5658
bharatgupt at vsnl.com
webpage: http://personal.vsnl.com/bharatgupt/
