defilements of the holy sounds - of the Vedas
I feel that Cantwell's Smith's views are pretty much identical to the
traditional philosophical view held by orthodox vedantins.  For example,
the statements like "rishayah mantra drastarah" which mean - rishis are
seers of Vedas ie.  They realized vedas in its original sound / light /
realization form and they are not written texts.  I personally believe in
this view of Vedas and I should say that I underwent classical training in
India for several years in philosophy / Upanisads / Bhagavadgita / Brahma
sutras.  More than the trai ining, the practical meditation of mantras "ie.
vedic hymns" definitely opens up different meanings of the words and
effects of what they represent.  In fact the rule in yogasutras - tajjapah
tadartha bhavanam - which means the japa or chanting of mantras have to be
  accompanied by contemplation of their meanings.  This contemplation helps
in assessing a visual representation of the meanings ie. the meanings
appear like a reality as real as the reality around us.  However, an
audience of scientific community may not believe in this view at all.  They
may easily dispose this issue as "unwarranted extrapolation" or even "
superimposition of personal beliefs on texts due to faith".
However, it is true that Vedas were not written down for a long time since
it was transmitted in a tradition of teacher to disciple orally.  I guess
this view is commonly accepted.
Krishna Kalale
Sent:   Sunday, September 26, 1999 5:16 PM
       defilements of the holy sounds - of the Vedas
Dear list members,
I've been reading Cantwell Smith's <What is Scripture?> the chapter called
"the Hindu Instance"
in it he suggests that "What the West calls "the" Veda [I think he refers
to the rg veda] was emphatically not written down." He further suggests
quoting C. Mackenzie Brown "The written images of an alphabet, far from
giving visual access to the sacred words of the Veda, were regarded as
defilements of the holy sounds"
can anyone confirm or contradict these assertions?
Thanks in advance
Benjamin Fleming
 << File: ATT00000.html >>
