supposedly Re: Aryan invasion debate
(Thanks to those who read my previous mailings in spite of the odd
formatting commands in them, apparently caused by a voltage
fluctuation that upset my mailing software.)
On Wed, 8 Sep 1999 06:03:14 +0200, Koenraad Elst wrote:
Dr. Elst,
This is getting better and better. So your first ploy misfired, and
now you're trying a new one.
I asked who could prove that I compared Rajaram to Hitler (making
it still easier: or the F?hrer, or the leader of the NSDAP), and
nobody provides me with proof. There cannot be any, of course.
Now we get this.
Here's another challenge: show me where, in that article (which is
online, for eveyone to see), I wrote "Hitler" (or "the F?hrer", or "the
leader of the NSDAP"). Come on, show us. Don't hesitate.
(Remember, people, it's all there: Rajaram and myself, at:
http://www.angelfire.com/in/zydenbos/laermendepolemik.html )
I'll make it easier for you with another question: is every reference
to the BJP a reference to Vajpayee? Or: is every reference to
communists a reference to Marx or Mao? Think carefully, Dr. Elst,
and then look at your accusation again. (By the way, I asked you a
similar question last time. You still haven't learnt.)
You have not yet answered my question:
[Elst: ] <<in the present debate, it is Dr. Zydenbos who has
uninvitedly introduced Nazi rerferences.>> (p. 9)
[Zydenbos:] <<I introduced them? I did? Dr. Elst! Why are you
doing this? How about going through the relevant materials and
updating yourself before uttering whacky accusations? In this case,
you needed only to see that one article by Rajaram.>>
Be brave, and don't dodge the issue. These questions are really
very simple. Just like my question whether November 1993
precedes December 1992. (Have you thought about that one?)
As for "smearing" (yes, Artur Karp's question is quite pertinent): I
see Rajaram shamelessly writing a plain lie about me, and I see
Dr. Elst on this list actually defending Rajaram (while he evades
answering questions about his own demonstrated foolishness).
And you wrote:
My reply to this is double:
1. This is doubly irrelevant: (a) Let us assume that Hitler believed
that: does it matter? (Hitler ate sandwiches. Does that mean we
should not?); (b) I am not an Aryan Invasion Theory defender. Show
me where I have stated that I support the idea of 'invasion'. (And
please follow Prof. Witzel's suggestion and get up to date.)
2. In your own view (expressed at the beginning of your message)
what you are doing here is "smearing".
Question: does the remark of one stray student at JNU prove that
the notion of Aryan migration, when held by researchers in 1999, is
politically motivated or wrong?
As for "pedantic ironies": I much prefer ironies to lies, falsehoods
and demagogic equivocations, thank you.
Do you think we can look forward to straight answers from you to
my questions, one of these days? Or will you continue
equivocating and smearing?
If you can answer the simple questions, I may bring up a more
complicated one, e.g., about your obscurantist racialist views (do
you remember your "importance of being white"?) But I don't want
to tax you with so much all at once, since the simple questions
apparently are already rather difficult for you.
RZ
