Mian Abbas und Padre Zyndenbos
WARNING: The following message is devoid of any academic quality. If you
are offended by polemics, please don't read on.
I am just responding to Panditani (oops - Boses aren't Brahmins !)
sorry, Ms. Bose's comments so she can't claim victory over me.
Namaskaaram Namraata Bose,
 Is that supposed to be `Zydenbos' ? Maybe such mistakes arise from your
retroflexion of `two's and `threes' in your particular dialect. Could we
know which dialect of Bengali you speak (that is,if you are a Bengali) ?
 Equally impressive is the way in which the history of such people is
denied and wilfully distorted :
   http://www.khalistan.net/gskhalsa.htm
And yours reminds me of Netaji Subhash Bose. In one of the Hindutva sites
you so support it is claimed that the Brahmin Pandit Nehru killed him.
What do you think ? Of course, you don't care, because your real name is
not `Bose'.
  That also reminds me of a proverb of Bengali Hindus : "Today I am a
Musahar [ rat-eating Sudra ] , if I am rich, my daughter will become a
Kayastha, and if her son is rich, he will become a Brahmin'. I got this
from one of my many good Kanoj Brahmin friends, who oppose `pollution and
desecration of Aryan blood'. And yes - they are all tall and fair, and
hardcore Brahmin Nationalist Ranvir Sena supporters. (Hint : they don't
like Bengalis because of fellow Kayastha Jyoti Basu's red fort).
One method of empowerment you forgot is the noble institution of sati,
which the comrades at BJP are trying to revive. I'll be gladly present at
your ceremony. But I'll need your home and office adress, and phone no.
Too bad - I don't speak Khari Boli which was invented in the 20th century
! Once again, Bengalis are not keen on Hindi, and this makes me doubly
doubtful of your true identity.
  Once again, utter disregard for womanhood. Confirms my suspicions of
your true identity. True feminists would have been apalled by my message.
And Indian feminists are of course more concerned with India than any Arab
countries. This shows that you are not any `Namrata Bose'. I guess you
just fell into my little trap. Hehe.
You forgot http://www.foil.org/, set up by your Bengali comrades from the
CPI. Check out the articles by the Brahmin Partha Banerjee there and at
http://www.mnet.fr/aiindex. Remember, lower castes questioning their
Brahmin masters face expulsion as per the Manusmrti !
 None of the websites you mentioned has anywhere a death toll exceeding 50
million. And they cannot - Hitler, one of history's greatest mass
murderers, killed `only' 5 million Jews.
Samar
