New Positions at Asian Studies, UT Austin
Dear Colleagues,
        Yesterday, I had sent one ad with a URL. That URL is changed, so I
am sending it again. The nature of the ad is that same though. I apologize
for the inconvenience.
POSITION IN SOUTH ASIAN STUDIES
at The University of Texas at Austin
The Department of Asian Studies at the University of Texas at Austin is
recruiting for a tenure-track position, rank open, in its South Asian
Studies Program. The candidate needs to have a Ph.D. in hand by the time of
appointment. We are looking for a scholar focusing on the classical period
in India (ancient/medieval) in the Brahmanical/Hindu, Buddhist, or Jain
traditions. The candidate needs to have demonstrated teaching and research
ability or potential with a high level of proficiency in Sanskrit and a
commitment to excellence in the classroom as well as to ongoing research.
The successful applicant will complement existing departmental strengths in
South Asian literature, history, religion, anthropology, art history,
music, and political science. Teaching duties will include Sanskrit, Indian
religious and cultural history, and specialized undergraduate and graduate
courses in the areas of the candidate's specialty. The University of Texas
has a National Resource Center for South Asia funded by the U.S. Department
of Education under Title VI.
Please send a letter of interest, current CV, three letters of reference,
recent papers/publications, and relevant syllabi drafts to:
South Asia Search Committee
Department of Asian Studies, WCH 4.134
University of Texas at Austin
Austin, Texas 78712-1194
The closing date for applications is November 22, 1999.
An AA/EEO employer.
POSITION IN JAPANESE STUDIES
The University of Texas at Austin
The Department of Asian Studies at The University of Texas at Austin is
recruiting for a tenure track position in its Japan program at the level of
assistant professor.  The candidate needs to have a Ph.D. in hand by the
time of appointment.  We are looking for a person trained in the
humanities, having an emphasis on Japan's premodern culture and literature.
The candidate needs to have demonstrated teaching and research ability or
potential.  The successful applicant will complement existing departmental
strengths in 20th-century Japanese literature, cultural anthropology,
history, and political science, and be committed to excellence in the
classroom as well as to ongoing research.  Teaching duties will be divided
between the area of the candidate's specialty and upper-division language
teaching.
Please send a letter of interest, current CV, three letters of reference,
recent papers/publications, and relevant syllabi drafts to:
Japan Search Committee
Department of Asian Studies, WCH 4.134
The University of Texas at Austin
Austin, Texas 78712-1194
The closing date for applications is January 15, 2000.
An AA/EEO employer
Kamal R. Adhikary, Ph.D.
Asian Studies,UT, Austin
Email:kamal at asnic.utexas.edu
Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?
Think not of them, thou hast thy music too,___
