The mother of all debates
I am sure that most people on this list will agree that the question
of the origins of the Vedic civilization, the issues surrounding the
Aryan homeland, and the geographical/linguistic birthplace of Sanskrit
are some of the most important unanswered questions in Indology.
All the scholars on this list that are participating in this debate
are doing a great service to Indology. And however frustrating and
heated that debate might seem, surely it is a debate that needs to be
debated, not to be supressed.
I then fail to understand why Dr. Elst, Vishal Agarwal, and the other
"indegenists" are being treated as rebels, untouchables and treated
with suspicion. Every rebutal mail I read attempts to cast some shadow
on their motives, identity, education, morals, and yes, even suggests
violent intents!
It is precisely due to the presence of many of these people that much
of the "original" AIT has been shown to be incorrect, as even AIT
proponents will admit. Then why this attempt to silence the kinds of
voices that have exposed lies in the past ? Would the scholars on this
list rather have Dr. Koenrad Elst et al unsubscribe from this list,
and "leave them alone" ?  The words on this list certainly seem to
belie such desires. Are we a group that ridicules those who differ,
instead of using their energy and their contributions ?
Let me make clear that I am not affiliated to Dr. Elst or any other
"indegenist" in any way. Just an average computer engineer struggling
to build the software and the Internet to enable great debates such as
these to be possible. In my individual capacity, I want to appeal to
all members on this great list to offer Dr. Elst courtesy at the very
least, and a wide latitude ideally to express himself and not get him
constantly mired in accusations and cross-accusations.
I hope that my humble words will serve to further the cause of open
debate, and lessen the personal verbiage that seems to seek to supress
this, the "mother of all debates" on Indology.
~sumedh
