From ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK  Sun Sep 26 10:00:36 1999
From: ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK (Dominik Wujastyk)
Date: Sun, 26 Sep 99 11:00:36 +0100
Subject: The New Catalogus Catalogorum
Message-ID: <161227052526.23782.13297413271448837318.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Earlier this year, I had the opportunity to visit the New Catalogus
Catalogorum project at the University of Madras.  I have visited several
times before, but this time I was more struck than ever by the sense of
despair hanging over the project, and expressed by the staff.

I use the NCC regularly in my work, and find it invaluable.  Flawed, yes,
but nevertheless a unique and irreplaceable guide to the source material
of Sanskrit and Prakrit literature.

The volumes have reached no.13, PA.  The prospect of further volumes
appearing seems very distant given the present state of things, although
staff continue to peg away at the job.  I would not be entirely surprised
if vol.13 were the last to appear.

I should like to ask my colleagues on this list whether they feel that the
NCC is valuable to them in their work, or even vital.

I find that I still have to go to Aufrecht (c. 1900!) for titles beginning
after "pa", except for works on jyotisa whose authors have been covered in
Pingree's CESS.  There are other important reference works too, of course,
like VOHD II, which references earlier work well in its early volumes, but
it is surprising how often Aufrecht remains the first choice when NCC
isn't available.  (Let's not argue about NCC v. CC.)

If a consensus arises that the NCC is important and valuable, then perhaps
we as a group can begin to consider what action - if any - might
appropriately be taken to safeguard and promote the project.

I have several ideas along these lines, which I would be interested in
discussing.  Not all of them require any effort on our part, beyond
perhaps gathering some testimonials to the general effect that the project
is vitally important to the future of cultural and historical studies in
India.  It is possible that advocates within the establishment in India
may be able to help in important ways.  Other ideas that I have considered
do involve more "direct action", including fund-raising.

If you are a user of the NCC, I would like to hear your opinions on this
topic.

Best,
Dominik Wujastyk




