Aryan invasion debate
Selvakumar writes :
But are the non-Indian religious texts considered as the epitome of Tamizh
literature?
The "Aim Perum KApiyangal" or the five great epics of the Tamizh literature
are closely
related to Arya culture. So is probably the finest work in Tamizh literature
- the Kamba RAmAyanam (which the dravidian nationalists so
sadly ignore!). And this is what I'm trying to point out.
If you can point out a *substantial* literary corpus which shows no Arya
connections and
points to an original individual identity of the Tamizh people, it would be
more useful
for the discussion.
Just asserting that it is not so will not do. Please give us more proof. If
you want
I can give you the Samskrutam name by which it is referred to by the JainAs.
And they think that Thiruvalluvar was just the publisher and not the author.
By this I don't really understand as to where you're pointing! If the Tamizh
brAhmanas
are of the same race as the dravidian Tamizhs, then why not the rest of the
brAhmanas
in India?
There's a big difference between systematizing the doctrines of a religion
and
systematic philosophic thought.
This is a new angle, but definitely worth pursuing. If somebody could come
up with
the earliest date of literature in Samskrutam in the Southern lands, we
could see
if the brAhmanas in early Tamil Nadu had a preference to Tamizh over
Samskrutam.
FYI, my mother and grandmother are both pulavar level in Tamizh (they just
laugh
outright at the claim that Tamizh is not their native tongue!). And both
have
nurtured enough Tamizh pattru in me since childhood that I'll never degrade
it on
any false claim. So I'm not 'Arya centric' as you presume, but am just
trying to
ascertain facts. So please let's not get carried away by our emotions and
let's try
to remain objective.
But this doesn't in anyway undermine the position of the 'trinity' in the
field.
So why don't classical dravidian exponents (and there're quite a few on this
list!) accept it to be so?
And I'm not really clear with your stand regarding the AIT, for you assert
that the
Tamizh brAhmanas are dravidians! So please state your position in your next
post, so
we can be clear as to what're arguing for!
I just wish you'd more facts to support your claims, instead of mere
assertions.
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
