replaced
[Bharat Gupta wrote:]
Much of the indigenist critique - as far as I can see - claims precisely that
the "invasion" theory is politically motivated. I would therefore like to point
out that both the Aryans and their geographical displacements have been
conspicuously absent from public debates in the West since the end of the
second world war. Apart from a lunatic fascist fringe and a few scholars who
specialise in this field, the Aryans and their origins have lost all interest
with the general public and the politicians. This is not the case in India. In
India the debate has a *specific* political function. In the West, it has no
function at all, and Western politicians do not need the Aryans and their
origins to justify anything. I don't think that my remark is unfair, I think it
is simply pragmatic.
It is easy for one say
communists
interpret
It is not my impression that the history of Greece is regarded as unoriginal.
Quite to the contrary, the West owes the foundations of its intellectual
culture to the combined efforts of Greeks, Romans and Hebrews. And the Greek
role is extremely important. Nor would I personally claim that the culture of
India is unoriginal. Quite to the contrary, Indian culture has a number of
highly interesting and quite unique features which are not parallelled
elsewhere.
It could also be alleged that Euro-
in
This could certainly be claimed, but it does not make sense. Every modern
politician knows perfectly well that dominance in politics is a function of
economic and military power. As long as the majority of your population is well
fed and has enough brain-dead entertainment to keep it occupied, you don't
really have to produce a lot of justification. Using the Aryans in a Western
society that is increasingly loosing its sense of history has no meaning
whatsoever.
of
The political motives of the indigenists are there for everyone to see. The
history of indigenism shows quite clearly that it mostly is the product of
political expediency. There are other motives as well, but politics are
important. And my point remains the same, although it can be generalized: In
all cases where ulterior motives, whether these are of a theological, a
political or an economic reason, play a part in determining people's views, an
academic debate quickly looses its meaning.
Contrary to what it may seem, I personally don't really give a damn about the
origin of the Indo-Europeans. For me, this debate is primarily about
professional method. If you can demonstrate with sufficient probability that
the Indo-Europeans came from India, that is fine with me. But so far, all I
have seen is a lot of bad scholarship where arguments ex silentio are given far
more weight than they should have under normal circumstances, and where
linguistic evidence is either ignored or treated incompetently.
On one hand there is no archeological
I don't think this is correct at all. There is evidence that Indo-Europeans
have been in Europe for a very long time. And some would certainly claim, with
good specific arguments, that archaeological evidence from South Russia is
Indo-European.
Any attempt to reconstruct a general history for the oldest layers of
Indo-European culture will necessarily be partly conjectural. That is what
happens when you have no historical documents.It is important to realize from
the outset that a number of things cannot be *proven*, they can only be
regarded as possible or probable. However, the movements of the Indo-Iranians
and Indo-Aryans must be fitted into the general picture of Indo-European
dispersal, and so far the indigenists have not been  able to do this. The
reason why western scholars tend to hang on to the Eurasian origin of the I-E
is that the probability mass - all things considered - rests in favour of such
a solution.
Best regards,
Lars Martin Fosse
Dr. art. Lars Martin Fosse
Haugerudvn. 76, Leil. 114,
0674 Oslo
Norway
Phone/Fax: +47 22 32 12 19
Email: lmfosse at online.no
