Job vacancy - OIOC, British Library, London
     The following post is now being advertised:
     A vacancy for a assistant Curator has arisen within the Prints,
     Drawings and Photographs Section of the Oriental and India Office
     Collections in the British Library, London.
     The Section holds large and important collections of paintings by
     Indian and other eastern artists; drawings and prints by western
     artists relating to South Asia and other areas of Asia; historic
     photographs; and oil paintings, sculpture, historic furniture and
     other relics of the East India Company.  You will be a key player in a
     small team responsible for the management and exploitation of these
     collections, which are indispensible sources for research both on the
     arts of India itself and on the work of western artists in India and
     related areas of Asia. You will run the Print Room, a separate study
     area maintained for readers using these collections, and will head the
     Section's information and reference services, as well as contribute to
     the cataloguing and management of the collections.  In addition, you
     will be expected to pursue your related research interests and to
     contribute to the publication and exhibition of the collections.
     You will already have a degree in some relevant aspect of Indian
     studies, and/or considerable and demonstrable research experience and
     knowledge of the arts of South Asia or of western artists working in
     the sub-continent.   You should have the ability to run a small
     reading room and to use your specialist knowledge to deal with
     scholars and the public in a constructive and supportive manner.
     Knowledge of one or more Indian or other eastern languages would be an
     advantage, while familiarity with automated systems of cataloguing and
     storage information is also desirable.
     You will be based in the British Library's new building at 96 Euston
     Road, London.  Starting salary on appointment will be on the assistant
     curatorial scale, depending on qualifications and experience.
     For further details and an application form, please telephone (+44)
     (0)171 412 7331; or e-mail: jeffrey.wotherspoon at bl.uk.  The closing
     date for the receipt of applications is 26 October 1999.
     The British Library is an equal opportunity employer.
     -----------------------------
     From:
     J P Losty
     Curator, Prints, Drawings and Photographs
     Oriental and India Office Collections
     The British Library
     96 Euston Road
     London NW1 2DB
     United Kingdom
     Tel: +44 171 412 7856
     Fax: +44 171 412 7641
     E-mail: jerry.losty at bl.uk
