>?From the time of the Upanishads, it's very difficult to support
the theory that brahmins were egalitarian (in the conventional sense),
that they permitted inter marraige or induction of non-brahmins into
the brahmanic fold. For in the Upanishadic period even kshtriyas
are mocked at, for being of lower birth.

The famous case of SatyakAma JabAla is often misinterpreted by secular and
egalitarian historians and philosophers. For the actual tradition interprets
it as "only a brahmana is capable of adhering to the truth in all
circumstances". And according to the tradition, the brahmana is always a
brahmana by birth.

And in the PurAnic and the SUtrA period, the caste system had indeed
become iron clad and apparently has continued till the present day.

So if any such induction or inter marraiges had taken place freely,
it must have been before the Upanishadic period. And even then there's
not so much hard evidence that such things really happened.

Ofcourse, Veda VyAsa himself though born of a brAhmana and a fisherwoman is
recognized as a brAhmana. But even those who were born of a "higher"
combination, are not given such recognition. Such
cases are exceptions and one cannot make theories out of them.

>I vaguely remember you said once that the difference in color amidst
>Indians is due to "tropical sun". I think the color difference cannot
>be explained this way.

Just a matter of opinion, I guess. Infact since coming over to the US,
I've seen a lot of non-brahmin Tamils who have started becoming fairer
due to the colder climate. It's my firm opinion that physical attributes are
intimately linked with climatic conditions, occupation, diet and other
factors related to the environs.

>Also note that the Vadakalai don't intermarry with the Tenkalai.

>  I personally know some weddings where vaDa- & then-kalai ayyangars
>have married; In the Hindu newspaper marital ads, increasing are
>the annoucements that "kalai" difference does not matter.

Given the fact that they were numerically small, I'm surprised that
the Iyengars have been able to manage marital relations only inside
their fold for so long. So it's not surprising that the kalai
difference is breaking down. Plus modern education, secular and
egalitarian environment has also had an effect on the system.

But the differences still exist. I personally know a Tenkalai friend
who's still having a hard time finding a groom for his sister.

>>I now quote from Prof.N.Subrahmanian (The Brahmin in the Tamil
>>country,p31).

>Mr Chandran:> This is no proof for the authenticity of such claims.

>Now in his 80s, Prof. N. Subrahmanyan comes from a reputed
>family of Tamil Smarthas who have produced many Sanskrit and
>Tamil scholars; he was called Historian of the Tamils
>by K. A. Nilakanta Sastri when NS wrote the book, History of Tamil
>Nadu. N. Subrahmanyan edited a campu work in Sanskrit
>sung on Anandarangam Pillai who kept a daily diary running into
>volumes in late 1700s and served as a Dubhashi/interpreter for
