Sanskrit-Tibetan Textual Work
Hi, Ulrich
Shodaijoron 2 vols, Kodansha  ISBN 06-143784-4
The work is basically in Japanese with a Sanskrit reconstruction of
the first two chapters -- the later ones have the kind of annotations
that you are probably have in mind so it will perhaps be of interest
to you.
Where are you based ?  If you are ever able to be in London, I could
possibly lend you my set if you cannot get it from Japan.
in two
have so
Sanskrit,
only
bstan 'gyur
five
There is also the Golden Tenjur MS recently available from China --
useful but it does not represent an entirely different stemma.
independently
I was not so much thinking of ms tenjurs but possible versions
surviving independently --- has anything turned up at Tabo for example
?   Perhaps it is less relevent in this case as the version you want
to use is late, but it might be worth collating quotes from early
Indo-Tibetan authors, possibly based on versions that have not been
revised (if the MAK has been revised).   For example, I have read a
lot of stuff by Long-chen-pa who quotes it extensively with variants.
There is a possibility that the MAK was translated more than once --
this certainly is the case with some texts.
Sanskrit
access
Anne
Prasannapadaa).
of
numerous
back in
to
are
According to
from
official
while.
The Chinese definitely stole a lot of Sanskrit mss from various
monasteries in Tibet.  You are right about the political angle -- very
cynical !   Various Japanese scholars have had access to some of this
material -- this is mentioned, among other places, in the latest IABS
report.   Some mss have been illicitly microfilmed and smuggled out of
China -- I cannot give more details for obvious reasons but this is
factual.  There is also a published Chinese catalogue of some 100+
titles which I do not have unfortunately.   Also have you looked
through Sankrityayana's list of mss he noted during his several trips
to Tibet before WW2 ?  The whereabouts or fate of these mss is unclear
but some of them turned up in India after the Chinese invasion.
Though the Chinese are returning some material to Tibet, a lot of it
is very haphazard -- the texts are being returned to approved
monasteries and not necessarily the ones from where the originally
came -- I understand that Tashilhungpo has been one such recipient.
Seems like a cosmetic political ploy to fill the monastery shelves to
bolster their lies that they protect Tibetan culture.
unfortunately
Yes, I agree but you know "Sod's Law" I presume.   I have spoken to a
Tibetan who actaully saw in his childhood the partial Tibetan
translation of the Maha-vibhasa together with the original Sanskrit --
who knows what became of that ?!
Anyway, though for me personally Chandrakirti is very unappealing as a
person and "thinker", I wish you well with your project.
Best wishes,
Stephen Hodge
