When did the gods become literate?
If even persons are not a self than could be either eternal or
non-eternal, let alone other phenomena such as the world.
To be a self means to be endowed with self-existence, whereby neither
persons nor other phenomena such as the world are a self that could be
either eternal or non-eternal, whence the irrelevance of Vacchagotha's
question.
Views is short for views of a self.
Views (of a self) are what bind one to the sa.msaara.
Views (of a self) prevent one from understanding the four noble truths.
Views (of a self) prevent the appearance of the object of right meditation,
the lack of a self.
Views (of a self), binding one to sa.msaara, prevent the attainment
of nirvaa.na.
This is absurd, because he explicitly asserted the view of non-self.
To be a self means to be endowed with self-existence, and since
no phenomenon such as skhandas, dhaatus, and aayatanas is so
endowed, there remains nothing to be a self.
Now if you assert a phenomenon that is not included in the skhandas,
dhaatus, and aayatanas, then it is your own responsibility to show its
existence, so that it could be verified whether or not it is a self, or
is endowed with self-existence.
If the Buddha really said it, he would be assuming the existence, and
thus propounding the view of a "Self", which contradicts your above
assertion that "[t]he Buddha condemned "all" views and not merely the
view of the Self."
Again, since you have just asserted that "[t]he Buddha condemned "all"
views and not merely the view of the Self," you must recognize that he
condemned the view of a "Self", lest you incur self-contradiction.
However, your understanding of Buddha's anatta and Middle Way is
simply self-contradictory, as just shown, whereas you could not find
fault in my offered interpretation, be it faithful or not to whatever
may be found in Tibet, Lanka etc.
Buddha's teachings counter the [mis]conception of a self, which is
both innate and held by non-Buddhist systems in general, not just
by Braahmanic philosophy.
Still, your understanding of Buddha's teachings has been shown to
be self-contradictory, no matter how much you may suppose to know
Braahmanic philosophy, whereas my own understanding remains
undamaged, no matter how much you may suppose me to ignore
Braahmanic philosophy.
Actually I read this book some years ago, but could not find anything
much convincing in it; however, if you did, please show me, I would be
curious.
Existence and non-existence are simply the two extremes avoided
by the Buddha. Persons and other phenomena are neither a self nor
utterly non-existent. Nirvaa.na is just the same.
Buddha's and Naagaarjuna's view of Reality (now you agree that the
Buddha has a view, I see) is just as above, and nothing else.
Still, there would be no reason to consider Theravaada apart from
Hiinayaana in general, from a Mahaayaana point of view, both in
terms of tenets and purposes.
Yes, they are S'raavakas, Pratyekabuddhas and Bodhisattvas, the first
two included in Hiinayaana and the third in Mahaayaana.
Julio.
