When did the gods become literate? Was: Are the gods literate
Hi, Nanda !
on
by
Yes, it seems as if Theravada Buddhism in Sri Lanka was fairly
isolated from northern India although people like Buddhaghosa have
borrowed a fair amount from Mahayana materials.  I think there is a
time gap between the composition of the early Mahayana sutras and the
rise of the scholastic Buddhism that was centred on Nalanda (Bihar),
Valabhi (Gujerat) and Ratnagiri (Orissa).  The earliest Mahayana texts
were not written in "classical" Sanskrit but the well-known hybrid
version, perhaps refelcting an earlier more coloquial phase.
most
1.    It is considered "bad manners" these days to refer to Theravada
as Hinayana.  Though Mahayana witers mention Hinayana, their clearest
doctrinal adversaries were the Sarvastivadins.  We just do not know
enough about the origins of Mahayana but it seems that they were
originally merely a liberal wing of the basic Sangha, i.e. mahayana
with a small "m", if you like.  There were many other Hinayana groups
in India at the time when Mahayana emerged who are never mentioned in
Mahayana polemics -- indeed many of the great Mahayana teachers were
monks of Hinayana sanghas.  People like Asanga are interesting because
they belonged to the Mahishasaka school -- they are regarded as the
mainland counterparts to the Theravadins.  Maybe the gap was smaller
between their doctrinal views and the later Mahayana.  Others such as
the Sautrantika found favour (in part) with avowed Mahayanists such as
Dignaga and Dharamkirti.
2.    There are references to the Mahayana people in Pali sources --
they are referred to as "vetulla-vada".
3.    I am sorry but I can't grasp the point you are trying to make
here.
Southern
Indian
culture - not
in fact
show
very
What, by the way, do you class as South India ?   Actually, I was not
saying that Buddhism flourished or not in South India -- there
certainly was a strong presence in south eastern India but less in
south western India.
probably
whether
That may well be the case.  Does it matter ?
Best wishes,
Stepehn Hodge (no "s" please)
