From SSRVJ at AOL.COM  Thu Dec  9 01:03:36 1999
From: SSRVJ at AOL.COM (Somayaji Rajagopala)
Date: Wed, 08 Dec 99 20:03:36 -0500
Subject: ThirujnAnasampandar and JainAs
Message-ID: <161227054355.23782.8693522533291087132.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

In a message dated 12/2/99 12:26:13 PM EST, vpcnk at HOTMAIL.COM writes:

<< In South Indian history, there's an instance where the great Saivite
 saint ThirujnAnasampandar is supposed to have converted a king from
 Jainism to Saivism. Local tradition uses a word (which I don't remember)
 which seems to indicate that many JainA monks were killed following the
 conversion. >>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------
The King's name was sri.Soundara Pandian. His Capital was Madurai. He was a 
Jaina(Samanar)-.He was also known as "Koon (Hunch Back)Pandian"-because of 
his Physical deformity. He won the Chola and Chera Kings in War-As per 
prevailing practice, Chola king's daughter smt.Mangayarkarasi was given in 
marriage to Pandian and one great Scholar sri.Kula Chiraiyaar was also sent 
to Madurai, who eventually became the Chief-Minister(C.M) Smt. Mangayarkarasi 
and sri.Kula Chiraiyar were great Lord Siva worshippers(Saivites).The Pandian 
King was of firm convictions and authoritative- but a man of secular 
attitude. The Queen and the C.M. did  NOT  want to displease the King -so 
they practiced Saivism(especially wearing "Thiru-Neeru"(Ash)etc -very 
secretly. They SECRETLY invited sri.Thirugjnaana Sambandar(Synonyms -Aaludai 
Pillai-Kaazhi Pillai- who was in his Teen-age) to come Madurai and establish 
Saiva Cult(Neri)in Pandya Kingdom .sri.Kazhi Pillaiar accepted the invitation 
and came to Madurai-much against the advice of sri Thirunaavukku 
Arasar(another Saiva Saint)-who escaped narrowly an attempt on his life by 
Jainas(Samanar).As expected Madurai Jainas were not happy with sriSambandar?s 
visit. In spite of C.M?s tight security arrangements Jainas Torched the house 
in which sri Sambandar was staying-but in vain. sri.Sambandar cursed that 
-let the heat in fire affect the King who failed in his duty to protect a 
Religious Leader. Pandian King was affected by a very high and severe form of 
fever-or some kind of allergy(Hot Erethema).The word used is "Veppu". Jaina 
Munis could  not cure with medicines and Recitations. Queen and  C.M. 
suggested  to the King why not a chance be given to Sambandar to cure the 
disease. Being a strong Jaina, the King was initially reluctant of smearing 
the Ash on his body-but gave-up-due to severity of the disease. On the 
challenge of Jainas, sri Sambandar agreed to treat the  Right side and Jainas 
left side. Jainas again objected that sri sambandar should not use the Ash, 
he has brought with him.-saying that it might be a witch-craft and not 
treatment. sri.Sambandar agreed to use the Ash from the kitchen of Madurai 
sri.Somasundareswarar Temple and he succeeded in curing on the side he was 
treating.- The Padhikam(Recitation) he used was "Mandhiram Aavadhum 
Neeru----------Thiruvaalavaayaan Thiru neere"( I think 21 verses)-at the 
request of the King, he treated the other side also and the King was free 
from Veppu Noi. ---8000 Jainas subsequently challenged sri Sambandar- if his 
Recitations (Thevaaram-in Tamil) written on  Palm Leaves does not get 
destroyed in Fire(Anal Vaadham) and swim against the Current in Vaigai 
River(Punal Vaadham) as against their Verses written on Palm leaves they 
would climb(in Tamil Eruthal means-voluntary climbing only) and  pin 
themselves to sharp wooden nails(Kazhu Eruthal) to death. If sri sambandar 
fails, he and his 12,000 followers would do the same thing. This kind of 
cruel betting and execution by Both Jainas and Saivites seem to be common in 
those days. It is not known (and worth Researching-who initiated this 
Barbaric Practice)sri Kula chiraiyar prepared thousands of wooden pins(Kazhu 
Maram).sri Sambandar won the bet. He told the Jainas-they need not DIE-it 
would suffice if they apply the Ash on their Fore-head and Body. Some Jainas 
preferred death than changing their religion-voluntarily jumped on the 
pins--in the frenzy some Jainas were forcibly pinned and killed by Saivite 
enthusiasts. Vast Majority applied the Ash on their body and got converted to 
Saivism and escaped death.. There was so much of dearth of Ash- many of them 
applied dust/sand/cowdung  etc. This is how the event is described in the 
book "Thiru Vilaiyadal Puraanam"(Tamil)-First Published by Saiva Siddhaantha 
Kazhagam-Tirunelveli-later by Vaanathi Padhippakam-Madras(now 
Chennai)Chapters 62-63(pages 343-361) Sanskrit version is called "Haalaasya 
Mahaathmiyam" .The book purports to describe 64 Leelas(Thiruvilaiyaadal) 
enacted by Lord Somasundareswara(Siva) in Madurai. But Acharya Sankara  talks 
about 64 "Tantras" of Lord Siva in Soundarya Lahari. Acharya Sankara?s period 
is at least 400-500 years before sri.Sambandar?s period.     




