Astronomy (Agarwal)
After reading the message quoted below, members of Indology perhaps can
understand Dominik Wujastyk's sigh of exasperation. I add my own one(s)
here.
For the first kind, i.e.  "I am new... isn't X interesting", there is only
one answer:
        "READ the "scope of INDOLOGY statement" on the Indology web site!"
 i.e. "The forum is targetted at professional participants ... not
primarily for ... undergraduates ... amateur interest...;  elementary
questions ..elsewhere;  ....    you are welcome to lurk....
etc. , etc.,  et  cetera.
This is the reason why the following message is to be seen as sign of
exasperation not "haughtiness". I for one simply do not have the time which
some seem to have to send off three messages each day,  in "forceful
language on a topic [I]  feel passionate about"....
At 19:03 -0800 12/7/99, Vishal Agarwal wrote:
General answer : why don't you read the text yourself and see? Before
putting SUCH questions that have been answered by scores of my
predecessors.  We cannot always start from Adam and Eve (or Manu and iDA)
again and again.
I will just answer this one message and one by Elst and Manansala, as
EXEMPLARY CASES and then leave them to their own devices.
Where is Krishna Ayas/Syama Ayas
Check it yourself. Ayas and derivatives occurs some 20 times throught the
text. Now take Vishva Bandhu's or other tools or even Eggeling's
translation, and see where 'black ' is used in conjunction with ayas. --
why don't you write a paper?
I do not take the bait: I am not a paid public relations officer. Of
course, if you pay me, say, a lawyer's fee of $ 200++ per hour, I will glad
to check out this question and others for you during my weekends...
Why don't you save us some time and simply look into MacDonell Keith's
Vedic Index?
Such questions are a waste of time. Chakrabarti and Rau have already
written about it in the early Seventies...  And, read D. W's descr. of
Indology (above).
Ayas occurs throught the text. So does iron: Check zyAma and kRSNa!
What do you think? What could the answer to this rhetoric question be?
And who cares, as far as iron is concerned: after its introduction IT IS
THERE. Just increases in use (archaeologically).
???  "late Up.s" says it!
Nope. That would be the typical  mono-lateral type of argument critized by
me already several times on this list (also, see anser to Elst) . We always
use other evidence as well.
Yes, *if* all the other evidence would agree... It doesn't: there are
earlier iron age texts (Atharvaveda, Yajurveda Samhitas). --  And if you do
not talk about occasional meteoric iron.
2 diff. kinds of methods, they must agree... And, e.g., text layers, see above.
