From AppuArchie at AOL.COM  Fri Dec 31 13:40:01 1999
From: AppuArchie at AOL.COM (Ramalingam Shanmugalingam)
Date: Fri, 31 Dec 99 08:40:01 -0500
Subject: Millennium
Message-ID: <161227054764.23782.7065825359150729086.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

THE MILLENNIUM WISH
By AppuArchie (Ramalingam Shanmugalingam)

Twenty Centuries recognized evolution of human history
Cave man, nomads and hunters most up to 18th century.
Industrial Revolution, gave Machine and Factory Production
Auto industry to meteoric rise of the Age Information
In a matter of fifty years is remarkable and mind boggling.

World as we know was not created in two or five Ks
A better world existed long before AD, others say
Before gadgets, gizmos and agents of chaos
Outnumbered tools of trade for clean and good living
Ancient literature is proof and Tamil literature abounds.

Fear ruled through Ignorance and Superstition before
Knowledge and rational thinking have now come to the fore
Might of the gun made mites into giants, material innovation
For profit more than service with a smile only for tax evasion
Mighty empires muffled by the might of instant information.

Rapid economic progress advantage to few
Painful to others in bondage without a clue
Ancient philosophies based on fear should go
Old social institutions of caste, creed and also
Should man dominating man if for self-advance.

The Devil of the past entered through body hole
Sneezing was proof devil possessed all told
"God Bless You " anti-dote to cure the malady
Microbes the devil and modern medicine today
Seek cure for the seen devil a step up but not all.

The third Millennium has come so fast and loose
High technology unbridled we may all lose
Glitches and bugs also the devils of technology
Avarice and arrogance remnants of mythology
These will vanish with level playing fields.

To think of a "World Federation" is music to ear
Europe's fruits of freedom and the Union is here
Developing nations mired in divisions masters made
Will have to enjoy bliss of true freedom and trade
All differences for human dignity and honor first

The reality is we are into a New Leap Year
A new Century, A New Millennium you hear
Each has a wish close to the heart Oh Dear!
AppuArchie had it all, all without any fear
Only wish is to die free as a Tamil in Tamil Eelam. END

A HAPPY NEW YEAR, NEW CENTURY, AND NEW MILLENNIUM MY FRIENDS.




