From magier at COLUMBIA.EDU  Wed Feb  9 18:58:56 2005
From: magier at COLUMBIA.EDU (David Magier)
Date: Wed, 09 Feb 05 13:58:56 -0500
Subject: Royal Takeover in Nepal
Message-ID: <161227075929.23782.18071161566544407620.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear colleagues,
I have been asked to forward the attached posting, from noted Nepal 
journalist Kanak Mani Dixit (editor of the now-suspended Himal South Asia 
magazine), to your mailing list or listserv. I apologize for any unintended 
duplication. As the news blackout in Nepal and the shutting down of 
international communications have made such local perspectives hard to come 
by, I felt it appropriate to forward this note, even if it seems slightly 
off-topic for your list. Additional reports on the situation in Nepal have 
been trickling out, and I intend to create an information resource with 
SARAI to provide access to such coverage. I do apologize if this mailing is 
unwanted or intrusive.

David Magier
South Asia Librarian, Columbia University
and
Editor of SARAI (South Asia Resource Access on the Internet)
<http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/indiv/southasia/cuvl>

------------ Forwarded Message ------------
Date: Tuesday, February 1, 2005 4:06 PM +0000
From: Kanak Dixit <dixitkanakmani at hotmail.com>
To: magier at columbia.edu
Subject: Royal Takeover in Nepal (pls post!!!)

Royal Takeover in Nepal: Drastic and Ill-Advised

By Kanak Mani Dixit

When King Gyanendra sacked the prime minister and began direct rule on 1
February 2005, he said he did so under a constitutional provision which
enjoins the monarchy to uphold and protect the Constitution. While he
repeated many times in the royal address his commitment to constitutional
monarchy and multiparty rule, the king?s drastic action on Tuesday went
patently against those principles. Firstly, he was taking over as executive
monarch on the basis of a personal decision. Secondly, the royal address
was replete with castigating references to political parties, who are the
intermediaries for pluralism and democratic practice anywhere in the world.

King Gyanendra?s antipathy towards the political parties is well known and
has been often-expressed, but by sidelining them completely and planning to
rule as well as reign, the king has removed a buffer between himself and
the rough and tumble of politics. To that extent, he has taken a great risk
and put the institution of monarchy in the line of fire. Clearly, the king
believes that the risk is worth taking.

Which brings us to the matter of whether Narayanhiti Royal Palace has a
trump card vis-?-vis the raging Maoist insurgency. If such is indeed the
case and there is rapid movement towards tranquility, with the insurgents
being routed or laying down arms, the royal palace may be able to overcome
the turbulence it has introduced into the Nepali polity. Peace and an end
to the insurgency would put the monarchy back on the pedestal as a
respected institution, but everything depends on how soon that would
happen. At one time, the Maoists did announce that they would negotiate
only with Prime Minister Deuba?s ?master?, so are we to hope that now with
the king directly in-charge the Maoists will extend a hand? We can hope.

Further, the Royal Nepal Army?s fight against the highly motivated and
increasingly brutal insurgents thus far has been lackluster. Will the royal
palace?s direct control of national affairs mean that the military will now
put up a spirited fight, and also that its human rights record will improve
