From rubberjoel at SAFE-MAIL.NET  Mon Apr 11 19:57:37 2005
From: rubberjoel at SAFE-MAIL.NET (Joel Bordeaux)
Date: Mon, 11 Apr 05 15:57:37 -0400
Subject: Ganapati query and call for interns
Message-ID: <161227076211.23782.17436062983992834851.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Hello.  Can anyone point me to some books or articles discussing Ganesha as depicted/worshiped in Buddhist traditions?  I know Ruegg has done a little work on the subject but wasn't sure what else to suggest to this person.
Thanks,
Joel Bordeaux, Columbia

---------------------------------------------------

Photographer/Multimedia Producer looking for interns
to work on various media projects related to multimedia installation on Ganesh Festival in Bombay

Photographer and multimedia producer, Shana Dressler, is looking for committed interns to work on various projects associated with her multimedia installation on the Ganesh Festival in Bombay currently in development. Interns are invited to help Shana prepare for a slideshow at the United Nations on June 2nd and the preparation for a full scale installation which is in discussion with a New York museum.

Interested interns would be involved in the following:

Slideshow at the UN

- help to locate a student animator currently in art school to work on opening sequence of the slideshow
- putting together a budget for the event
- help to produce the slideshow which may include an opening dance to Ganesh, a invocation sung to Ganesh and coordinating a light meal
- putting together a press list and marketing materials to advertise slideshow to UN employees
- outreach to invite possible sponsors to fund final trip to Bombay in September 2005 to complete multimedia installation for museum
- work on a website so that potential donors will have access to a range of information

Multimedia Installation at NY Museum

Once the proposal has been accepted help will also be needed to work on the multimedia installation currently being considered by a New York museum. Interns wishing to work on this should contact Shana for further information. E: shana at shanadressler.com

Internship start date: ASAP for the UN slideshow; ongoing for Multimedia Installation

Application instructions: Please send a short cover letter explaining why you're interested in interning on this project and include your resume as a PDF (preferred method) or MS Word document to shana at shanadressler.com.

Background info: www.shanadressler.com/ganesh for photos; see bio below

Biography:

Shana Dressler?s career as a multi-media producer has spanned several continents and disciplines. Her recent work includes putting together an exhibition of photographs of the Ganesh Festival as celebrated in Bombay at the National Arts Club in New York; consulting for the Music and Cultural Programming Department at Link TV; working with the Global Peace Initiative of Women on their upcoming Global Youth Leadership Summit; and helping to produce The Spirit of F?s US National Tour of world sacred music.

As a photographer, Shana has worked for magazines both in the United States and abroad. ?If Only It Were Love,? a photography book based on her unrequited love story with an Italian underwater photographer in Italy, is pending publication. The photographs were exhibited at New York University?s Casa Italiana in January of 2003.

As a video journalist Shana covered the "Drumming In The New Millenium" festival shot in Cairo, Egypt for World Entertainment Network and has filmed station spots of world music stars such as Baaba Maal, Habib Koit? and Afro Celt Sound System for Link TV.  In 2000, Shana completed "Can't Wait 'Til Sunday," a documentary short which she directed and produced with National Geographic photographer/cameraman Bob Sacha, about a Harlem preacher?s last night of work as a mechanic for the United States Postal Service. This film was part of a long-term photography project about spiritual experience in a Pentecostal church in Harlem. A portfolio of photographs from this project is part of the permanent collection of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in New York.

She has also produced ?Around the Globe in 10 Weeks,? a ten part world music lecture and performance series. Speakers included, among others: Robert Browning, World Music Institute; Sean Barlow, Afropop Worldwide; Prof. Gage Averill, Director of the Ethnomusicology Program, NYU; Valerie Naranjo, percussionist of the Saturday Night Live Band, and Bobby Sanabria, Grammy nominated Latin drummer. In 1999, she was hired by Ellipsis Arts, a world music label, to produce the audio CD ?African Lullaby? which won the Parent?s Choice Golden Seal Award that same year.  She is currently working on a compilation of African Water Spirit songs for an upcoming exhibition at UCLA?s Fowler Museum slated for 2007.

Shana is a 1989 graduate of Vassar College with a B.A. in Medieval and Renaissance Studies. She received her photography training at the International Center of Photography in New York where she took courses in photojournalism while studying Comparative Religion and Anthropology at Columbia University. She is fluent in Italian, French and Spanish.




