From joerg.gengnagel at URZ.UNI-HEIDELBERG.DE  Tue Dec  6 08:36:39 2005
From: joerg.gengnagel at URZ.UNI-HEIDELBERG.DE (Joerg Gengnagel)
Date: Tue, 06 Dec 05 09:36:39 +0100
Subject: Position in Modern South Asian Studies
Message-ID: <161227077207.23782.5964391427629807039.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

 The SOUTH ASIA INSTITUTE of the Ruprecht-Karls-Universitaet Heidelberg

invites applications for the position of

 Full Professor (W 3) in Modern South Asian Studies
(Languages and Literatures; 'Moderne Indologie')
(successor Prof. Dr. Monika Boehm-Tettelbach)

to begin April, 2007.

 
The South Asia Institute was founded in 1962 as an interdisciplinary 
centre for research and teaching on South Asia. It is a central academic 
institute at Heidelberg University, whose role is to advance 
cross-cultural knowledge and understanding by combining the social 
sciences with the humanities. As such, the Institute is the only one of 
its kind in Germany. The Institute maintains close links with research 
centres in Asia, Europe and America. Extensive field research is carried 
out in South Asia, usually in cooperation with local scholars.

The disciplines represented at the SAI, i.e. Anthropology, Classical 
Indology (Classical Languages and History of Religion), Development 
Economics, Geography, History of South Asia, International Economics, 
Modern South Asian Studies (Modern Languages and Literatures of South 
Asia), Political Science, offer a wide range of curricula and subjects. 
Applicants are expected to have experience and interest in 
interdisciplinary co-operation.

Further information about the South Asia Institute is available under: 
www.sai.uni-heidelberg.de

 
Required Qualifications:

?      Applicants should have an advanced degree (e.g. a North American 
PhD.), post-doctoral lecturing qualification ('Habilitation') or the 
equivalent, as well as teaching experience. Candidates are expected to 
fully represent the department of 'Moderne Indologie (Modern South Asian 
Studies - Languages and Literatures)' in teaching both ongoing and 
developing new courses of study at the South Asia Institute.

?       Ability to work collaboratively with interdisciplinary 
programmes and research teams.

?   Candidates are expected to contribute to the development of research 
and to maintain the international research position of the department - 
in particular the development of a Hindi Database - and to be actively 
involved in the various projects at the institute, for example the 
Collaborative Research Centre 619 'Ritual Dynamics' (SFB 619 
'Ritualdynamik). Furthermore, experience is required in field research 
in South Asia along with the willingness to engage in close cooperation 
with universities and academic institutions abroad, notably in South Asia.

The position is permanent. Candidates who have not served as a 
University Professor will initially be appointed on a fixed-term 
contract according to ? 50 Paragraph 1 LHG (University Law of the 
Federal State of Baden-Wuerttemberg), after which tenure may be granted 
without the necessity of re-application. Exceptions may be made for 
international or extra-university applicants.

The University of Heidelberg seeks to increase the number of qualified 
women in teaching and research positions and strongly encourages 
applications of women. Handicapped persons with equivalent 
qualifications will be given preference.

Closing date is 31 January 2006. Applications should be sent to the 
following address:

 
Dekan der Philosophischen Fakult?t
Universit?t Heidelberg
Vo?stra?e 2
Geb?ude 4370
D-69115 Heidelberg




