From BrodbeckSP at CARDIFF.AC.UK  Mon Nov  5 10:06:15 2012
From: BrodbeckSP at CARDIFF.AC.UK (Simon Brodbeck)
Date: Mon, 05 Nov 12 10:06:15 +0000
Subject: New Journal: Asian Literature and Translation
In-Reply-To: <CAKdt-Cd+5pzioCPu4ZGXgGC7JMLZrhqLKD2_SaBp0qtTdwiZCA@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <161227097911.23782.14795115201386508698.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Colleagues,

I am pleased to announce a new journal:

Asian Literature and Translation (ALT): a Journal of Religion and Culture (ISSN: 2051-5863)

Asian  Literature and Translation (ALT) is an open access, peer-reviewed,  online journal established by the Centre for the History of Religion in  Asia (CHRA), Cardiff University. The main objective of the journal is to  publish research papers, translations, and reviews in the field of  Asian religious literature (construed in the widest sense) in a form  that makes them quickly and easily accessible to the international  academic community, to professionals in related fields, such as theatre  and storytelling, and to the general public.

The scope of the  journal covers the cultural, historical, and religious literature of  South, Southeast, East and Central Asia in the relevant languages (e.g.  Sanskrit, Pali, Chinese, Tibetan, Japanese, et al.). We particularly  welcome literary translations, including extracts from longer works in  progress, manuscript reports and commentarial material, new adaptations  of classic texts, archive stories and debate pieces, and the discussion  of new approaches to translation. Book and performance reviews,  including visual material, and letters to the editor, including  responses to published material, are also solicited.

As an open  access online publication, ALT (Online) can be more flexible and  creative than a standard print journal. The texts are in pdf-format and  can be published and downloaded at virtually no cost. To increase the  speed with which material can be accessed and disseminated, all  contributions are issued individually in numerical order.

Contributions  are welcome on a wide range of topics in the research area defined  above. All contributions should be sent electronically to  altjourn at cf.ac.uk. The covering email should have two copies of the  submission attached, one as a word.doc and one as a pdf. A short  abstract of the piece must also be included. For further information,  see  www.cardiff.ac.uk/share/research/centres/chra/whatwedo/journal-asian-lit-and-translation.html

Please distribute this message elsewhere as appropriate.


Simon Brodbeck
Cardiff University


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20121105/f2e91cd7/attachment.htm>

