From athr at LOC.GOV  Thu Aug 14 16:10:07 2003
From: athr at LOC.GOV (Allen W Thrasher)
Date: Thu, 14 Aug 03 12:10:07 -0400
Subject: Posting: Library of Congress on Pakistan, Bangladesh,              and South Asian Islam
Message-ID: <161227073107.23782.3996741473343683651.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

The following position, for a reference librarian dealing with Pakistan,
Bangladesh, and the Islamic culture of South Asia, has been posted and
will close on July 11.  If further information is needed, please contact
the addresses below,  not the poster (Allen Thrasher) or forwarder.

This announcement may be forwarded.

Allen Thrasher
Asian Division
Library of Congress


 Vacancy AnnouncementUSAJOBS Control No. TX7743&nbspFC
http://www.USAJOBS.opm.gov, the U. S. Government's official source of
job information, provides this information to the public at no cost.


VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT

Agency Name: Library of Congress



Vacancy Announcement Number: 030130



Apply Online: http://www.avuedigitalservices.com/loc/applicant.html



Opening Date: 06/10/2003



Closing Date: 07/11/2003



Area of Consideration: US citizens - non-citizens, providing that

immigration law and other legal requirements are met.



Position Title, Series, Grade: Librarian, GS-1410-09



Promotion Potential: 13



Salary: $40,044.00 - $52,058.00 Annual



Duty Location(s): Washington, DC



Work Schedule: Full Time



Time Limit: Permanent - No time limit



Notes: This position requires a reading and speaking knowledge of Urdu.



The Library of Congress is the national library of the  United States
and
is part of the Legislative Branch of the Federal government. As such,
all
positions are in the excepted service.



The salary range indicated reflects the locality pay adjustment for the

Washington, D.C. Metropolitan area.



This position is located in the Asian Division, Area Studies Collections

Directorate, Library Services.



Number of Vacancies: One



This is a non-supervisory, bargaining unit position.





The incumbent of this position will work a fixed (8:30 am - 5:00 pm)
work
schedule.   Some weekend or evening work assignments may be required.



The position description number for this position is 12535.



RELOCATION EXPENSES ARE NOT AUTHORIZED FOR THE PERSONS SELECTED UNDER
THIS
VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT.



The Library reserves the right to fill a lesser or greater number of

vacancies indicated during the life of this vacancy announcement.



Applicants who are referred for interview will be required to submit a

completed OF-306, Declaration for Federal Employment.



Initial appointments, permanent or indefinite, to the Library of
Congress
require completion of a one-year probationary period.



This agency provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with

disabilities. If you need a reasonable accommodation for any part of the

application and hiring process, please notify this agency. The decision
on
granting reasonable accommodations will be made on a case-by-case basis.



Appointment/retention is subject to a favorable evaluation of an

appropriate personnel security/suitability investigation.



APPLICANTS WITH DISABILITIES MAY BE CONSIDERED UNDER SPECIAL HIRING

PROCEDURES AND MUST SUBMIT AN APPROPRIATE CERTIFICATE OF ELIGIBILITY
WHEN
APPLYING FOR THIS POSITION. FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT THE SELECTIVE

PLACEMENT PROGRAM COORDINATOR AT (202) 707-6362 (VOICE or TTY) OR EMAIL

spp at loc.gov.



HOW TO APPLY: To be considered for this vacancy, applicants may apply

online at www.loc.gov or complete and submit an applicant job kit that

includes the completion of an applicant questionnaire using a scannable

form. The online process allows applicants to prepare an application
that
can be printed for personal use and saved and edited (if necessary) on
the
website for future use. The online application contains all of the data

elements/fields that are required for submission of an application for

federal employment. In order to use this online application system

applicants must use a computer that is equipped with either Netscape 4.7

or Internet Explorer 5.0  Attempting to complete the online application

with an incompatible browser could result in the submission of an

incomplete application. If you experience difficulties, please direct
all
inquiries to jobhelp at loc.gov. The applicant job kit requires completion
of
a scannable form. You can request a copy of the applicant job kit and

scannable form by contacting the Employment Office at the address listed

below (a facsimile of the scannable form cannot be accepted nor will
hard
copy applications be accepted without a completed scannable form): The

Library of Congress Employment Office - Staffing/Recruitment Group 101

Independence Avenue, SE, LM-107 Washington, D.C. 20540-2295 (202)
707-5627




Please be advised that due to security concerns on Capitol Hill, mail

delivery from the United States Postal Service is experiencing
significant
delays. As a result, you are strongly encouraged to apply online. If you

choose to submit a hard-copy application, we recommend that you send it

via Fed-Ex or United Parcel Service (UPS) and that you allow at least 72

hours for delivery, even for overnight packages.  You also have the
option
of hand delivery of your application, Monday through Friday from 8:30 am

until 4:30 p.m. to the Library of Congress Employment Office.



For those candidates referred for interview the following documentation

will be required at the time of interview:



For current or former military personnel: a copy of your DD-214,

Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member Copy 4) if

applicable;



For current or former Federal employees: a copy of your most recent
SF-50
noting your current position,  grade level, duty location, and salary

level;



For applicants qualifying for a position based on any educational

requirements listed in the vacancy announcement: a legible copy of your

college transcripts.



For any additional information please contact a Human Resources
Assistant
at the number listed above.



THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER. WOMEN,

MINORITIES AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES WHO MEET ELIGIBILITY
REQUIREMENTS
ARE STRONGLY ENCOURAGED TO APPLY.



Contact Name: Employment Office



Contact Phone: 202-707-5627



Contact Email: Jobhelp at loc.gov



DUTIES:



Reviews a variety of brochures, catalogs, journals, and other sources of

items for possible acquisition in order to develop collections in areas
of
subject or geographic responsibility.  Assists senior reference staff in

determining the quality and usefulness of collection materials. Assists
in
developing strategies for the organization, storage, preservation, and

service of materials. Orients users and explains procedures and

regulations governing use and handling of materials in the collection.







    Provides reference and instructional services for individual

researchers and groups. Determines needs from client interviews in
person,
over the telephone, or from written requests. Provides in-person and

telephone reference service in a reading room.



Responds orally or in writing to inquiries related to assigned field of

responsibility. Provides guidance and access to information resources,

both inside the library and beyond the library, through databases,

telecommunications networks, and cooperative arrangements.  Answers

questions directly, or guides patrons to resources.



Coordinates the acquisition of items through the appropriate purchasing

channels.  Consults acquisition policies to determine whether items are

appropriate for purchase, copyright claim, exchange, gift, or other type

of acquisition.  Provides proper purchasing information and correct

bibliographic identification to dealers, subscription agents, vendors,

overseas offices, exchange partners, etc. Reviews and approves invoices

for payment for all formats of material.



Prepares research guides and finding aids on topics of client interest.

Assists senior librarians in revising or updating research materials.

Identifies foreign and international print and electronic resources in a

field of specialty to address user needs.  Prepares and updates standard

guides to specialized collections and resources.



EVALUATION OF TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE:



Applicants must have had progressively responsible experience and
training
sufficient in scope and quality to furnish them with an acceptable level

of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties
of
the position without more than normal supervision.:



Ability to communicate effectively.



Knowledge of the nations and cultures of South Asia.



Knowledge of research materials and collections required for the study
of
Pakistan, Bangladesh, and the Islamic culture of South Asia



Ability to provide reference or information services.



Knowledge of information technology.



Ability to communicate in Urdu and English.



BASIS OF RATING:



You will be rated based on your qualifications for this position as

evidenced by the education, experience and training you report relative
to
this position which shows that you possess the knowledges, skills and

abilities required. Paid or unpaid experience will be considered.




