From bimahony at DAVIDSON.EDU  Fri Nov  7 18:09:28 2003
From: bimahony at DAVIDSON.EDU (Mahony, Bill)
Date: Fri, 07 Nov 03 13:09:28 -0500
Subject: Announcement of New Online Library
Message-ID: <161227073402.23782.13826736989710255432.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Colleagues,

The Muktabodha Indological Research Institute is pleased to announce the launch of its online library of digitally imaged texts never before made available in this way.

The first texts to go online are those of the multi-volumed Kashmir Series of Texts and Studies (KSTS).

For access to this library, please go to our website: <muktabodha.org/digital_library.htm>.

Muktabodha plans subsequently to make available in the form of digital images thousands of texts, primarily from the Shaiva, Shakta, and Vedic traditions. These will be texts that are either rare, difficult to access, or in danger of physical disintegration. Many of these texts currently exist only in manuscript form on palm-leaf, birch-bark, or other quite fragile media.

The 75-volumes of the KSTS now available through Muktabodha include texts associated with the world-embracing non-dual Shaivism of Kashmir dating to the 8th to 12th centuries. Scholars will find herein works by the great Abhinavagupta and other philosophers associated with the Pratyabhijna or Trika school of Shaiva thought, including Jayaratha, Kshemaraja, Somananda, Utpaladeva, and Vasugupta. The series also includes works by 35 other influential authors, including Bhaskara, Gorakshanatha, Kalidasa, Kaul Sahib, Lalleshvari, and Ramakantha .

The KSTS was first published in printed form by the Research Department of Kashmir and Jammu. Mindful of the difficulty some scholars may have in finding access to these important works and of the hardships faced by texts printed on paper, Muktabodha has converted the books in this series into digital images so that they may be available to scholars worldwide for many years to come.

The pages in this digital library may be accessed both in DejaVu and as PDF files for easy on-screen reading and for the printing of hard copies for scholars' individual use. 

We invite your use of this resource. Registration is free.

Sincerely,

William K. Mahony
Professor of Religion, Davidson College
President, Muktabodha Indological Research Institute




