From lnelson at SANDIEGO.EDU  Tue Sep  3 01:13:38 2002
From: lnelson at SANDIEGO.EDU (Lance Nelson)
Date: Mon, 02 Sep 02 18:13:38 -0700
Subject: Job, Fellowship, Book Series at OCVHS (fwd)
Message-ID: <161227071331.23782.5435319746834827760.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

I'm forwarding this at the request of Dr. Clooney.  Lance

------- Forwarded message follows -------
From:                   "Francis X. Clooney, S.J." <clooney at bc.edu>
Subject:                OCVHS Announcement

Below is information - under 3 key items - from the Oxford Centre for
Vaishnava and Hindu Studies (apologies for length...) I would
appreciate it if you could pass the information along to interested
persons, and also if you can post the information on relevant Lists,
as you deem appropriate. I will also be happy to answer (off-List)
questions regarding these new ventures, and you can also direct
inquiries to Shaunaka Rishi Das, Executive Director
(shaunaka at ocvhs.com).

Frank Clooney SJ (clooney at bc.edu)
Boston College

==================

The Oxford Centre for Vaishnava and Hindu Studies, OCVHS, was founded
in 1997 as an independent centre for the study of Hindu and Vaishnava
culture, religion, languages, literature, philosophy, history, arts
and society, in all periods and in all parts of the world. The Centre
works closely with Oxford University to meet the highest standards of
academic integrity, originality and excellence. The Centre is also
working toward more formal affiliation with the university, along the
lines already adopted by the Centre for Hebrew and Jewish Studies and
the Centre for Islamic Studies at Oxford.

For more information, please visit the OCVHS website:

http://www.ocvhs.com

OCVHS is happy to announce three current opportunities:

I) Position of Academic Director

The OCVHS Academic Director (AD) is a senior scholar (with a Ph.D. or
equivalent degree) and expert in some aspect(s) of the Hindu
religious traditions. The AD is responsible for the existing academic
programs of the Centre, and for developing new programs. The AD is
the Centre?s contact person and link with the Theology faculty,
Oriental Institute and other faculties, and with other scholars of
South Asian studies at Oxford. He/she will normally lecture on
Hinduism as a member of the Theology faculty, and offer tutorials for
undergraduate and graduate students there, but may also offer
lectures and tutorials to the Oriental Studies faculty and others.
The AD works with OCVHS affiliated students and is the primary
academic contact with prospective students. He/she is responsible for
the regular seminars of the Centre, and for hosting special seminars
and guest lectures. The AD is normally also the editor of the
Centre?s book series with RoutledgeCurzon. The new AD?s term begins
in January 2005. He/she is expected to be in residence at Oxford for
at least 6 terms (3 semesters) during a three year term of office
(renewable). Stipend, Oxford residence, and benefits negotiable.
Review of applications begins on the 1st January 2003. Applicants are
asked to provide the information requested at the OCVHS website

http://www.ocvhs.com/faculty/application.html

and should be ready to provide a current Curriculum Vitae and Names
of 2 Academic Referees.

For more information contact:
Francis X. Clooney, S.J.
OCVHS Academic Director (2002-2004)
15 Magdalen Street
Oxford OX1 3AE, UK.
Telephone: +44 (0)1865 304300
Fax: +44 (0)1865 304301
E?mail: info at ocvhs.com
Web: www.ocvhs.com
During July to December, Prof. Clooney may also be contacted directly
at clooney at bc.edu

II) The Shivdasani Visiting Fellowship

The Centre offers each term a faculty fellowship in Hindu studies.
Awarded to a recognized scholar from India, the fellowship affords
the recipient access to the University of Oxford?s libraries,
lectures, and other academic resources, and conversation with a wide
range of scholars and students at the University and the Centre. The
scholar receiving this fellowship is expected to be in residence for
a full term (8 weeks: October-December, January-March, or April-June)
and to lecture during the term on a topic he or she chooses in
consultation with the OCVHS Academic Director. Housing is provided,
and stipend negotiable.

Application Procedures:
The Centre invites applications for the academic year 2003-4 (1
October to 30 June). Applicants are asked to provide the information
requested at the OCVHS website

http://www.ocvhs.com/faculty/application.html

and should be ready to provide a current Curriculum Vitae and Names
of 2 Academic Referees.

For further details please contact:
Shaunaka Rishi Das
OCVHS Executive Director:
15 Magdalen Street
Oxford OX1 3AE, UK.
Telephone: +44 (0)1865 304300
Fax: +44 (0)1865 304301
E?mail: info at ocvhs.com
Web: www.ocvhs.com

III) Hindu Studies Book Series

The Oxford Centre for Vaishnava and Hindu Studies announces a new
Hindu Studies Series, to be published by the Centre in cooperation
with RoutledgeCurzon. The Series invites scholarly proposals and
manuscripts in all areas of Hindu Studies, with a particular emphasis
on constructive Hindu theological, philosophical and ethical projects
aimed at bringing Hindu traditions into dialogue with contemporary
trends in scholarship, issues prominent in the contemporary world,
and the particular concerns of Hindus in India and abroad. The
expected audience for series volumes is both scholars and a wider
educated public. Proposals should include: a general rationale and a
detailed outline of the volume and its contribution by comparison
with similar works in the field (if any), and a current Curriculum
Vitae. Sample chapter(s) will be requested before contracts can be
given. For guidelines to drawing up a good proposal. please visit

http://ocvhs.com/publications/hindu_studies_series.html

Initial proposals and inquiries should be sent to:
Francis X. Clooney, S.J.
OCVHS Academic Director (2002-2004) and Series Editor
15 Magdalen Street
Oxford OX1 3AE, UK.
Telephone: +44 (0)1865 304300
Fax: +44 (0)1865 304301
E?mail: info at ocvhs.com
Web: www.ocvhs.com
During July to December, Prof. Clooney may also be contacted directly
at clooney at bc.edu

------- End of forwarded message -------
----------------------
Lance Nelson
Theology & Religious Studies
University of San Diego
lnelson at sandiego.edu




