From asalgia at students.uiuc.edu  Wed Feb  7 19:18:58 1996
From: asalgia at students.uiuc.edu (Amardeep Salgia)
Date: Wed, 07 Feb 96 13:18:58 -0600
Subject: Misconceptions of Jainism; the Jains of North America (fwd)
Message-ID: <161227022634.23782.3458374920914348783.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>


---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Wed, 7 Feb 1996 13:10:46 -0600 (CST)
From: Amardeep Salgia <asalgia at ux7.cso.uiuc.edu>
To: jain-list at wavefront.com 
Subject: Misconceptions of Jainism; the Jains of North America 



	In response to the recent request for assistance in conducting a 
research project on the Jain society of the Chicago area, I forwarded the 
following essay to the individual involved in the study.  The areas of 
interest were media coverage of the Jains and misconceptions of Jainism.

	The essay is an (unfinished and unedited) version of a 'foreword' to 
a compilation of academic and religious articles which I am working on with 
other members of the Jain group at the University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign.  In it, I deal directly with the some of the many 
misconceptions of Jainism that the past couple of centuries of 
(non-Jain) writings and perceptions have spawned. 

	For the purpose of discussion and the promotion of seious educational 
endeavors of lasting consequence, I am submitting this 'foreword' to the list.
 

--
Amar Salgia
URH 224 Townsend
1010 West Illinois St.
Urbana, IL 61801
(217) 332-4068
asalgia at uiuc.edu


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

				  FOREWORD


	As ordained by Lord Mahavira, the twenty-fourth and last 
Tirthankara of the present era, the Jain Sangh, or Order, consists of 
four types of human beings:  Sadhu, Sadhvi, Shravak, and Shravika 
(respectively, Jain Monks, Nuns, Male Householders and Female 
Householders).  For well over two and a half millenia, this Order has 
remained more or less intact on the Indian subcontinent, where every one 
of the Tirthankaras were born.  The Sadhus and Sadhvis, having renounced 
all ties to the material world, live in complete adhereance to the Five 
Mahavrats, or great vows.  For the Shravaks and Shravikas, those Jains 
who live in society and who are therefore bound by material means, the 
Sadhus and Sadhvis are thus the spiritual and moral guides, and the holy 
examples of the ideal life.  Metaphorically, the Sadhus and 
Sadhvis of the Jain Sangh are individually the embodiments of Jain 
philosophy, Right Conduct, detachment, and serenity.  Their presence is 
essential to the survival and sustainance of any Jain community.

	Most of the Jains of North America are either Indian immigrants 
or their children.  Since the former were born primarily into Western and 
Central Indian (Gujarati, Rajasthani, etc.) cultures, the religious 
traditions, beliefs and practices which today dominate the Jainism of the 
North American laity are marked by the influence of these cultures and 
practices.  This cultural influence pervades the various rituals (e.g., 
arti, gheeboli, pujas, etc.), customs, and annual observances of the 
Jains of North America.  Up to the present, the overriding direction 
undertaken by the Jain community has been one duplication of the lay 
Jain societies of Western and Central India, as evidenced through biases of 
language, ritual, and terminology.

	Among the second generation of Jains, there is a growing concern 
for the social and practical implications of Ahimsa.  There has also been 
a significant interest among Jain youth for the future survival of 
Jainism in North American society.  However, despite the efforts of a 
handful of dedicated individuals, there has been no significant emphasis 
on (1) the building of an educational infrastructure or (2) 
self-improvement through spirituality, philosophical learning, and the 
study of primary sources on Jainism (i.e., the Jain Scriptures).  
Instead, "Indianness" and Indian-American social concerns preoccupy the 
mind of the average Jain youth.  This is understandable since, more than 
ever before, Jains are themselves making an effort to blur the 
differences between their religion and that of the Hindus (and other 
religious groups), usually with a very liberal understanding of 
Anekantavad as justification.  Furthermore, Jains have been unwittingly 
attacking their own religion and way of life through their acceptance and 
regurgitation of the uninformed judgements and portrayals of non-Jain 
scholars, which are dealt with below.  And, without the presence of Jain 
Sadhus and Sadhvis, who are uncompromising in living their holy vows, and 
who are not lax in the self-control and and detachment necessary for 
Final Liberation, the Jain society of North America - and of all the 
world - is, from an anthropological point of view, in a rather precarious 
position.

	Apart from the generational gaps, apathy, and ignorance that 
partially characterize the Jain community of North America, the youth 
must contend with things more threatening to the long-term survival and 
sustainance of the Jain community and way of life.  An exhaustive 
exposition of these socio-religous factors, which seem to be inherent to 
being a religious minority in the West, ought to be left to Jain 
scholarship and anthopological investigation.  One of them, however, was 
explained above and is the primary inspiration for compiling this book.  

	Ever since the modern Western discovery of the Jains, Jainism's 
philosophy, spirituality, and moral doctrines has been subject to several 
well-circulated distortions and belittling portrayals.  These are 
manifest in a number of contentions held by the non-Jain scholarly 
community which are enumerated below.  Practically no effort has been 
made on the part of the world Jain community to educate itself regarding 
its own history and unique existence as a social entity.  Until the 
present, the world Jain community, including that of North America,  has 
been quite tolerant and accepting of such misguided evaluations of the 
Jain religion.  Therein lies one threat to to the long-term survival and 
sustainance of the Jain community and way of life; for generations can 
pass with an ever-decreasing sense of social and religious identity, and 
an ever-increasing tendency towards dissolution into the larger society.  
These trends, among others, are already running rampant among the Jain 
communities of India.  A vital part of the solution to their propogation is 
whole-hearted investment in and promotion of Jain scholarship, which this 
book is intended to help inspire in its readers.  


The Prevailing Contentions.

