From Hanuman7 at aol.com  Thu Feb 29 17:43:14 1996
From: Hanuman7 at aol.com (Hanuman7 at aol.com)
Date: Thu, 29 Feb 96 12:43:14 -0500
Subject: Formal Apology to Indology List
Message-ID: <161227023108.23782.499142093463245168.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

*One More time, thank you for allowing me to smell the coffee*

Hello, my name is Stephane Dehais. Last week I received a silly  "chain
letter" forwarded to me from new york city. 

In a sophomoric moment, I thoughtlessly forwarded the letter on to the
respectable Indology list. I now apologize for wasting your time, energy,
bandwidth, and for cluttering your mailbox. I have responded to all the
emailed complaints personally, but *just to make sure* we can all put this
behind us and move forward, I now make it public that I deeply regret this
episode, that this inane message was posted from my personal account and does
not reflect the views or opinions of any organization or individual I may be
associated with. Please do not blame anyone else.

This is my final email to the Indology list. If I may be so bold, since you
are already reading this, to include a more uplifting quote to end on a
higher note. This will say more about the respect I hold for the scholars on
the list, by addressing your intellect and your heart:

"Mais, croyez-en, amis, ma voix prete a s'eteindre,
Par-dela tous ces dieux que notre oeil peut atteindre,
Il est sous la nature, il est au fond des cieux
Quelque chose d'obscur et de mysterieux
Que la necessite, que la raison proclame
Et que voit seulement la foi, cet oeil de l'ame !
Contemporain des jours et de l'eternite !
Grand comme l'infini, seul comme l'unite !
Impossible a nommer ! a nos sens impalpable !
Son premier attribut c'est d'etre inconcevable !
Dans les lieux, dans les temps, hier, demain, aujourd'hui,
Descendons, remontons, nous arrivons a lui !
Tout ce que vous voyez est sa toute-puissance !
Tout ce que nous pensons est sa sublime essence !
Force, amour, verite, createur de tout bien,
C'est le dieu de vos dieux ! C'est le seul ! C'est le mien !x "

- La Mort de Socrate
M. De Lamartine,
de l'Academie Francaise

Thank you.
SDH





