From zydenbos at flevoland.xs4all.nl  Thu Nov 14 02:16:24 1996
From: zydenbos at flevoland.xs4all.nl (zydenbos at flevoland.xs4all.nl)
Date: Thu, 14 Nov 96 01:16:24 -0100
Subject: intelligent conversation
Message-ID: <161227026856.23782.9283384882374845582.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>


Replies to msg 13 Nov 96: indology at liverpool.ac.uk (ucgadkw at ucl.ac.uk)

 uau> In other words, I'm hereby banishing "intelligent
 uau> conversation" from
 uau> INDOLOGY.
 uau> :-)

Ah... yes, perhaps it is time to discard the more casual remark in favour of
something more elaborate, explicit and precise, for the sake of a possible
polite further discussion (if anyone is at all interested).

I certainly do not mean that Hindi is useless as a medium of communication.
What I do mean is that there is a Western perception that Hindi is "the" modern
language of India. My contention is that it is, but only to a very limited
extent. It may be amusing (?) to note here that, in a parallel case, many
Indians  believe that they can speak English with the rest of the world. But is
English spoken all across Europe? Yes, in a way; but in another sense: no,
certainly not. There are highly intelligent people in Europe who cannot carry
on a significant conversation, which they themselves find satisfactory, in
English; this has nothing to do with their intelligence, but with their active
mastery of the language. This again has to do with real linguistic
difficulties, very real cultural differences, etc. etc. And I contend that this
is not merely the same with Hindi in India, but more so.

Let us take the example of Tibetan refugees living in Karnataka. They learnt
Hindi and now realize that apart from their most basic economic dealings, they
are socially isolated from the surrounding population. This isolation is caused
largely by a language barrier which Hindi has hardly helped them overcome. [I
speak Hindi with some of them. :-)]

The distinctions made between filmi Hindi, Urdu etc. etc., which Richard Barz
calls "artificial", are socially and linguistically highly relevant if we wish
to discuss the effectiveness of the language as a medium of communication
throughout the entire gamut of communication within the culture of a country
like India, i.e. also as a means of intercultural communication between the
many sub-cultures of the Indian sub-continent. (And perhaps it can be labelled
a form of "orientalism", in Said's sense, if one denies that these distinctions
exist.)

Of course the evaluation of the role of any language depends mainly on  exactly
what one needs the language for: in which contexts, in interaction with which
people, to which purposes, etc. For certain specific purposes, Hindi is very
effective throughout India. But what is the nature of the "cultural spread" of
Hindi in India, which Richard Barz writes about? Is this not an Indological
topic? Is it not (at least a little) interesting that millions of people (more
than the populations of most Western countries) hold Hindi in contempt or hate
it as (what they consider) a tool of political oppression? Surely it is not
"Hindi-bashing" to ask such legitimate questions. (As for the remark on the
side by the same critic, concerning English vs. Hindi: English gets you further
than Hindi in the south, where able speakers of Hindi are a minuscule
minority.)

I believe that my original statement, along with this elaboration (sorry for
this apparently necessary lengthiness), still holds good. But if it is not
politically correct for an Indologist to speak about the majority of the people
of India - or if we are not supposed to look at what actually happens in India
- or if we should not question the "cultural spread" of Hindi (which I did when
I wrote about the now banished i[...] c[...]) - or if we should hush up that
people have died for the official recognition of their languages and for the
creation of linguistic states - or if we should not wonder why the value of
Indian banknotes is printed on them in so many languages (remember our earlier
postings?) - or if all this has already been discussed, or if persons in
INDOLOGY start yelling at each other or bash or accuse others of bashing, -
well, then we can discuss on-line libraries, fonts, and other nice things. :-)

Robert Zydenbos



