From srice at cruzio.com  Sat Mar 25 20:54:17 1995
From: srice at cruzio.com (Stanley Rice)
Date: Sat, 25 Mar 95 12:54:17 -0800
Subject: Sources for understanding MAYA
Message-ID: <161227018982.23782.8715957791794342653.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Dr Bryson,

My daughter Leslie also has a real desire to know the nature of
"maya". She read some, but was puzzled. She read Sri Ramana
Maharshi and was intrigued but still mystified. After she heard a
realized disciple of the Maharshi speak it has become clearer
to her. Now she knows by direct experience (but not continuously)
that the world is only thoughts occuring within herself,
representing no self-existent reality or entities. She has little
interest in conceptual formulations, including much of what is 
quoted below, though she reveres the Maharshi. The world is often
experienced as in her, not she in the world. This is happiness.
For this she has great interest, especially to make it permanent,
since there is relative pain when it is absent.

  Those who even doubt the conventional naive "reality" are
lucky. Most have no interest or curiosity, of course. For a
certain kind of investigation it may be useful to see that one
cannot be what one perceives (especially the body and thoughts.)
The knower cannot be what is known--as has been pointed out for
millenia. For my part, just to notice that we have not the least
notion or suspicion as to what occurs between sensory stimulus
and resulting "idea" raises logical doubt. (Dan Dennett et al
notwithstanding.) But if it lodges in a verbal framework it goes
nowhere...one is "already familiar". One might say that ignoring
the evidence, or simple lack of curiosity, is maya. Or as
Socrates said in refusing to discuss the nonduality of Parmenides
(in spite of his supposed reverence for Parmenides)--in effect, 
we have more entertaining things to discuss. It seems that only
when we see the effects in a living Sage do we suspect that we
are ignoring the only satisfaction, as well as the truth.

  Our daughters have the curiosity, which is grace in itself. I
hope yours is a blessing, as is mine. For what it may be
worth...some words of three Sages, probably well known to you.

  Best wishes, Stan Rice

------------------------------------------------------------

