From d.keown at gold.ac.uk  Sun Apr  9 22:28:24 1995
From: d.keown at gold.ac.uk (d.keown at gold.ac.uk)
Date: Sun, 09 Apr 95 22:28:24 +0000
Subject: Journal of Buddhist Ethics Publication News
Message-ID: <161227019085.23782.9751364705328307668.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

The Journal of Buddhist Ethics is pleased to announce the publication of a
Research Article, Book Review and three items in connection with
the forthcoming Conference on Buddhism and Human Rights.
 
RESEARCH ARTICLE
 
Title: Meditation as Ethical Activity
Author: Georges Dreyfus
Publication Date: April 9, 1995
 
ABSTRACT
 
     Despite the fact that the various Tibetan Buddhist traditions
developed substantive ethical systems on the personal, interpersonal
and social levels, they did not develop systematic theoretical
reflections on the nature and scope of ethics. Precisely because very
little attention is devoted to the nature of ethical concepts,
problems are created for modern scholars who are thus hindered in
making comparisons between Buddhist and Western ethics. This paper
thus examines the continuity between meditation and daily life in the
context of understanding the ethical character of meditation as
practiced by Tibetan Buddhists. The discussion is largely limited to
the practice of meditation as taught in the //lam rim// (or _Gradual
Stages of the Path_).
 
 ABOUT THE AUTHOR
 
Georges Dreyfus is Assistant Professor of Religious Studies at Williams
College, Williamstown, Massachusetts.  He may be reached via E-mail at:
georges.dreyfus at williams.edu
 
BOOK REVIEW
 
Two Recent Indian Books on Buddhist Ethics:  Tiwary's   _Perspectives
on Buddhist Ethics_ and Vyanjana's _Theravaada Buddhist Ethics with
special reference to //Visuddhimagga//_.    Roger Farrington, Goldsmiths
College.
This may be found in the "Current Edition" pages of the
JBE's WWW sites as well as in the directory /vol2 at the JBE's anonymous
FTP sites (filename: farring.txt).
 
CONFERENCE ON BUDDHISM AND HUMAN RIGHTS
 
1)_A Bibliography on Buddhism and Human Rights_ compiled by Dr Damien Keown.
 This may be found on the Online Conference on Buddhism and Human Rights
page in the JBE's WWW sites as well as in the directory /resources at the
JBE's anonymous FTP sites (filename: rightbib.txt).
 
2) A statement by His Holiness the XIV Dalai Lama of Tibet entitled "Human
Rights and Universal Responsibility" made on June 15 1993 to the United Nations
World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna.  This may be found on the
Online Conference on Buddhism and Human Rights page in the JBE's WWW
sites as well as in the directory /conference at the JBE's anonymous
FTP sites (filename: dalai1.txt).
 
3) The United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
 This may be found on the Online Conference on Buddhism and Human Rights
page in the JBE's WWW sites as well as in the directory /conference at the
JBE's anonymous FTP sites (filename: un_dec.txt).
 
SUBSCRIPTION

Subscription to the Journal is free, and instructions for the retrieval of
articles are sent to subscribers. To subscribe, send the following email
message:

To: Listserv at psuvm.psu.edu
Subject:
----------------------
Sub JBE-L Firstname Lastname

Example: Sub JBE-L Harrison Ford
 
If you have difficulty please contact the Journal's
Technical Editor Dr. Wayne R.Husted (jbe-ed at psu.edu).


 





