ally, Uzbek warlord Gen. Rashid Dostum. From there they reached
Peshawar and later Islamabad and Europe. Twelve statues were
sold to a London dealer for $300,000. The dealer in turn sold
the statues to a Japanese collector for $600,000. Several dozen
ivories are still available in Islamabad. A Pakistani art
historian who has seen ands authenticated some of the statues
says the asking price is $35,000 each.

The museum's collection of 40,000 coins, ranging from the 8th
century BC the late 19th century, was one of the more extensive
in the world. It included t largest Greek and Roman coins ever
found and the spectacular Mir Zakah Hoard. The hoard was
discovered under a spring near Kabul. It yielded 11,500 coins,
or 2,000 kilograms of gold and silver, and spanned four
centuries and numerous civilizations from Rome to China. Every
single coin has now disappeared, sold to private collectors
around the world, experts say.

According to Western diplomats, prominent Afghans and Pakistanis
living in Peshawar and Kabul are working as agents for both
wealthy Middle Eastern collectors looking for Islamic coins and
artifacts and Japanese tycoons wanting Buddhist statues. In one
particular case, they suspect that a solid gold Buddha from
Bamiyan weighing 2,012 kilograms is now in Japanese hands. The
museum was also renowned for the fabulous collection of Bactrian
gold, 21,000 gold objects-jewelry, plates, plaques and
decorative pieces-dating from 100 BC to 100 AD. Russian
archaeologists discovered the hoard in 1978 at Tillya Tepe, or
the Golden Mound, in northern Afghanistan.

To discount rumors that the retreating Soviet army had taken the
gold in 1989, former communist President Najibulla displayed the
Bactrian gold to Western diplomats in Kabul in 1991. The gold
was then packed into crates and moved for safety to a vault in
the Presidential Palace in central Kabul. The Bactrian gold is
now under the direct control of President Burhanuddin Rabbani's
military commander, Ahmad Shah Masud.

However, no independent witnesses have confirmed that the
collection is intact, leading to fears that it may have been
sold off piece by piece. Perhaps confirming those fears, the
REVIEW was recently offered a gold cup and plate allegedly from
the Bactrian gold collection for 600,000 rupees ($19,000) in
Lahore.

The Kabul government of President Rabbani is attempting to
retrieve artifacts still inside Afghanistan, but with the
country divided and still at war, it has little chance of doing
so. Information Minister Delju Hussaini says only 52 artifacts
have so far been retrieved by the government and restored to the
museum. "Our aims are to restore what is left, transfer the
collection to a safer area and then construct a new museums he
adds.

All that is still in the future, however, and there is little
doubt that the fight for funds to rebuild the museum will be an
uphill battle. Notes one Afghan art historian: "When Afghans are
suffering from the ravages of war, are hungry and without
schools, it is not easy to persuade them that this task is very
important."

--------


 





