From kamal at link.lanic.utexas.edu  Thu Dec  7 22:28:37 1995
From: kamal at link.lanic.utexas.edu (Kamal Adhikary)
Date: Thu, 07 Dec 95 16:28:37 -0600
Subject: Call for Articles for Sagar
Message-ID: <161227021997.23782.5120035632084793472.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>


Dear Collegues,
	I am an anthropologist.  My area is south Asian languages and 
cultures.  I joined the 'indology mailing list' a couple of weeks ago, 
and I am enjoying the ongoing debate on the Indian politics that has been 
posted almost daily for the past few days.  I am sure I will contribute 
something soon.  For now I like to post a call for paper for 'Sagar, 
South Asia Journal'.  The detail is given below.  I hope you will respond 
to it.  Thank you.
kamal




                               CALL FOR PAPERS

Graduate Students!
We Want Your Papers!

Sagar is a biannual journal sponsored by the Center for Asian Studies at 
the University of Texas at Austin.  The journal showcases exceptional 
graduate student  and junior scholar articles.  It also includes faculty 
and graduate research methodology, reports from the field, and occasional 
book reviews.  The journal is available in electronic and bound editions.

Members of our editorial collective include: Ali Asani, Richard Barnett, 
Manu Bhagavan, Nandi Bhatia, James Brow, Paul Courtright, Chandra 
DeSilva, Nicholas Dirks, Jeffrey Durham, Diana Eck, Wilhelm Halbfass, 
Robert Hardgrave, Walter Hauser, Atul Kohli, Pauline Kolenda, Janice 
Leoshko, Wm. Roger Louis, Rachel Meyer, Gail Minault, David Pinault, Leah 
Renold, Paula Richman, Richard Salomon,  Nikhil Sinha, Cynthia Talbot, 
Thomas Trautmann, and Eleanor Zelliot 

SUBMISSION  INFORMATION

Submissions should be no more than 6,250 words (approximately 25 
double-spaced pages) on any topic dealing with South Asia.  Please 
include full footnotes and bibliographies according to the latest edition 
of the Chicago Manual of Style (Turabian); do not use parenthetical 
references.  Contributors are encouraged to submit their articles either 
on diskettes or by email.  Printed or typewritten articles are also 
accepted; 8.5? by 11? paper is preferred.  Authors must include their 
names, addresses, phone numbers, fax numbers, email addresses, titles, 
universities and year in graduate school (if appropriate).  All relevant 
information must be provided in order for submission to be considered.  
Authors shall retain copyright if their article is selected for 
publication.  However, by submitting an article, authors grant Sagar 
permission to publish it. Contributors should refrain from seeking other 
avenues of publication until Sagar?s selection process is complete.  

Illustrations and photographs should be submitted unattached; all 
accompanying captions should be type-written on a separate page (do not 
write on the pictures).  Tables may be included in the body of the text.  

If an article is accepted for publication, author(s) will have five days 
to edit and return proofs.  Significant changes may be requested.  If not 
returned on time, editors reserve the right to remove article from 
consideration.  

Books for review and correspondence concerning reviews should be sent to 
the editor.  

Deadline for the spring issue is 1 January and deadline for the fall 
issue is 1 October.  Authors will receive notification of acceptance in 
February for the spring issue and November for the fall issue. 

Submissions and inqueries should be sent to the following address:

Sagar
Asian Studies
Campus Mail Code G9300
Austin, Texas 78712-1194
Phone: (512) 471: 5811
FAX (512) 471-4469
sagrj at emx.cc.utexas.edu





Sagar is available on the World Wide Web at the following URL: 
http://asnic.utexas.edu/asnic/sagar/sagar.main.html




Thanks 
_______________ 
Kamal R. Adhikary, Ph.D. Internet Coordinator, Asian Studies
UT, Austin, Texas 78712
Tel:512-475-6034
Email:kamal at asnic.utexas.edu

 


