From skjain at server.uwindsor.ca  Sun Dec 17 18:13:21 1995
From: skjain at server.uwindsor.ca (S Jain)
Date: Sun, 17 Dec 95 13:13:21 -0500
Subject: New Journal (fwd)
Message-ID: <161227022182.23782.2175606070440144947.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>


I thought members of this list may be interested in the following 
information (if it has not been posted by another member already). 
-----------------------------

INDO-JUDAIC STUDIES JOURNAL
Co-editor
Prof. Nathan Katz
Dept. of Religious Studies
Florida International University
DM301A,
Miami, FL 33199

"The Indo-Judaic Studies Journal is an annual academic journal published 
by the Society for Indo-Judaic Studies dedicated to analyzing the 
affinities and interactions between Indic and Judaic civilizations from 
the ancient through contemporary times. Each issue will feature the 
following:

1. New scholarly research into such areas as; comparative studies of 
Judaism and the religions of India, with attention to implications for 
the field of religious studies; historical studies of cultural and 
commercial links between Indian and Israel; social scientific studies of 
Jewish communities in India and Indian communities in Israel; comparative 
diaspora studies of Jewish and Indian communities, especially in North 
America; literature studies, including analyses of images of India in 
Jewish writings; political and scientific studies of diplomacy between 
India and Israel; approaches to secularism vs traditionalism in 
contemporary Indian and Israeli politics etc. (3 or 4 articles per issue)

2. Republication of pioneering Indo-Judaica, classical studies in the 
field which are not readily accessible, such as Kunst's study of 
comparative logic, or Mandelbaum's ethnographies of Cochin's Jews (one 
per issue)

3. Translations of primary documents such as the Urdu hagiography of Said 
Sarmad, or Hebrew travellers' accounts by Reinman, Saphir and Hillel, or 
Pierre Loti's French descriptions of Cochin's Jew Town, or such 
'philo-Semitic' writings as Jamyang Norbu's Tibetan History of Israel 
(one per issue)

4. Translations of modern scholarship in Hebrew, Yiddish, Hindi, etc. 
(one per issue)

5. Interreligious / inter-ethnic dialogues, including theoretical aspects 
of dialogue as well as 'dialogue statements'.

6. Book reviews

7. News and notes.

[The above information appeared in the IIAS Newsletter (International 
Institute for Asian Studies, Leiden, the Netherlands), Autumn 1995, p. 
29]. 

Contributions may be directed to the editor mention at the beginning of 
this posting or to the co-editor:

Prof. Braj Mohan Sinha,
Dept. of Religious Studies
University of Saskatchewan,
Saskatoon, Sask., S7N 0W0
Canada

<Sushil Jain>

 





