>?From THRASHER at MAIL.LOC.GOV 26 1993 Jan GMT 10:46:10
Date: 26 Jan 1993 10:46:10 GMT
From: ALLEN W THRASHER <THRASHER at MAIL.LOC.GOV>
Subject: LOC JUNIOR FELLOWSHIPS

           
           
           
          THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS JUNIOR FELLOWS PROGRAM : ASIAN DIVISION 
           
            The  Asian Division invites  your participation in  its  Junior 
          Fellows Program.   The  Division  offers  academic fellowships to 
          qualified juniors, seniors, and graduate students  in  a  program 
          designed to  fit  the interests and schedules of  the fellows  as 
          well  as  to serve the mission of  the Library.  Projects in  our 
          collections will  be  of interest to students in  library science 
          and Asian studies. 
           
           
          SCOPE OF THE COLLECTIONS 
           
          The  Asian Division's collections of  1.7 million volumes include 
          books, periodicals, newspapers, manuscripts,  and  microforms  in 
          the languages of  East Asia, Southeast Asia, and  the South Asian 
          subcontinent.  The  four sections  of  the  division  -  Chinese, 
          Japanese,  Korean,   and  Southern  Asia   -   provide  reference 
          assistance and prepare bibliographies for  both materials in  the 
          Asian  language collections and  related publications in  Western 
          languages in the Library's general collections. 
           
            The collections in  the custody  of  the Southern Asia  Section 
          contain   nearly   500,000  volumes   or   ficheof   volumes   in 
          classicalPakistan, India,  Tibet,  Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, the 
          Maldives,  Sri  Lanka,  Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, 
          Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei, Indonesia and the Philippines. 
           
          EXAMPLE OF PROJECTS AVAILABLE FOR FELLOWS 
           
          Southeast Asia Serials Collection. 
           
               Vietnamese, Malaysian,  and  Indonesian  serial  collections 
          need  to  be  evaluated,  selectively  prepared  for  binding  or 
          microfilming, and  added  to  the  collections.   The  Vietnamese 
          newspaper collection needs  to  be prepared  for microfilming.  A 
          12,000   reel  microfilm  collection  of  newspapers  and   other 
          publications in  regional languages  needs  to  be  reviewed  and 
          reorganized to  provide easier access  with improved computerized 
          bibliographic controls. 
           
               Work  on these collections offers Fellows the opportunity to 
          work  with  area specialists and  to famniliarize themselves with 
          the Library's methods  of managing materials of  this  kind.   It 
          also provides an introduction to the Library's use  of  its field 
          offices in Jakarta, New Delhi and Karachi and to the publications 
          practices of the South and Southeast Asian areas. 
           
          Inquiries about  possible intern projects  may  be  made  to  the 
          Chief, Asian Division, Library of Congress, Washington, DC 20540, 
          or by telephone at 202-707-5420.   DEADLINE March 1, 1993. 
           
           
          NB:  Applicants must be United States citizens or  hold  a "green 
          card" (permission to be employed in the U.S.) 
           
               The above is a digest of the printed announcement being sent 
          out   to  appropriate  area   studies  departments  and  centers. 
          Specific information on Southern Asia  Section projects can  also 
          be asked from the section, 202-707-5600. 
           
          Please forward this message  as appropriate, especially to  other 
          networks. 
           
          Allen Thrasher 
          Southern Asia Section 
          Library of Congress                                               





