SOAS Lectureship in Tamil
              School of Oriental and African Studies
                      (University of London)
                       Lectureship in Tamil
Applications are invited for a Lectureship in Tamil and South
Indian Studies in the Department of the Languages and Cultures
of South Asia.
The appointee will be required to teach Tamil language and
literature, and to provide South Indian coverage for the
Department's broader programme of courses on South Asia. 
Candidates should have a good practical and theoretical knowledge
of Tamil and a commitment to the active pursuit of research is
essential.  The appointment will be effective from 1 October
1993.
The Lecturer salary scale is 13,400-24,736 pounds plus
2,134 pounds London Allowance.
Application forms and further particulars may be obtained from
the Personnel Office, School of Oriental and African Studies,
Thornhaugh Street, Russell Square, London WC1H OXG (Tel: 071-637
2388 ext. 2234).  Please telephone between 2 pm and 5 pm.
Overseas candidates may apply directly by letter supported by a
full curriculum vitae and the names and address of three
referees.
Closing date: 23 April 1993.
The School is an Equal Opportunities employer.
    Department of the Languages and literatures of South Asia
              School of Oriental and African Studies
                       University of London
          Lectureship in Tamil and South Indian Studies
The Department of the Languages and Literatures of South Asia
offers a range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes based
on the following lPanjabi, Sanskrit, Sinhalese, Urdu.  Tamil, unavailable since the
recent retirement of Dr. J.R. Marr, is to be reinstated in 1993.
Undergraduate courses are modular, and based on a 4-course year.
Most undergraduate students are registered for three-year joint
honours degrees, in which the allocation of study is divided more
or less equally between (a) language and literature courses
taught within the Department, and (b) courses in other
disciplines taught elsewhere within the School (Art &
Archaeology, Development Studies, Economics, Geography, History,
Law, Linguistics, Music, Politics, Religious Studies, or Social
Anthropology).  A single-subject South Asian degree features two
new literature and culture courses based on English
source-materials and team-taught by various members of the
Department.
In addition to the BA programmes, a language and literature
element is also included as an option in the MA Area Studies
programme; and postgraduate research supervision is provided for
MPhil and PhD degrees in most South Asian languages and
literatures.  Members of staff will also be contributing to the
new MS in Comparative Literature which is to be introduced in
1993.
The academic year begins in late September, and examinations fall
in May/June, the total number of teaching weeks being 24.  Each
undergraduate course averages three teaching hours per week,
through three terms.  Some students join the programme already
having some background in a South Asian language; such students
usually join the course at second-year level, and follow a
suitably modified course of study through the three years of
their degree.  Able students are encouraged to study a second
language also.
Regular seminars are held within the Department, providing an
opportunity for staff members and research students to discuss
their work, and the appointee would be expected to be involved
in such seminars both as presenter and as discussant.  Great
emphasis is placed upon the importance of an active commitment
to research and publication.
The new appointee will be expected to contribute language and
literature teaching at various levels, including regular
elementary language tuition, and also to the courses in `South
Asian Culture' and `South Asian Literature' which form the core
of the South Asian Studies degree.  The new lecturer's own
interests and specialisations will of course be taken into
account in the allocation of teaching and in the development of
an integrated Tamil component of the degree str ctures described
above.  The duties of the post will include some teaching of a
related discipline, such as Religious Studies (with Saivism a
particular emphasis), Comparative Literature, or History.
A commitment is also expected to the School's Centre of South
Asian Studies, which exists specifically to bring together the
various disciplines having a common interest in the region
through regular seminars and ongoing interdisciplinary research
programmes.
%end
Dominik Wujastyk                                  d.wujastyk at ucl.ac.uk
                                                       +44 71 611 8467
