RE: PATANJALI TRANSLATIONS
Without doubt the best commercially available translation in English is the
version by George Feuerstein - called the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali. Its best
feature is that he gives the root for every word in the text, so that you get a
whiff of the deep meaning even if you know no Sanskrit.
All the sutras are given in the roman script, which is an advantage for people
who do not know Devanagari but a disadvantage for those who do. It is a very
scholarly (but readable) translation, along with some (but often idiosyncratic)
commentary. Feuerstein specialised in the Yoga Sutras when he was at Manchester
University, and the wealth of erudition clearly shows. He has read everything
available on the Yoga Sutras in English, German and (most of) Sanskrti, though
not in the modern Indian languages. He has had experience of Samadhi himself
(though that is not particularly difficult for the more elementary forms), so
he has an experiential base as well.
Another good translation, which includes a translation of Vyasa's commentary,
is the U.C. Santa Barbara Ph.D thesis of Lloyd Pfleuger (1990). He too is well
versed in the English and German sources.
There are many other translations of course, each with specific virtues. Send
me e-mail if you are interested.
What I would most like to see, of course, is the a project on CD Rom which
gives the Sutra of Patanjali, the gloss of Vyasa and each of the 20 major
sub-commetaries thereafter, with the original in Sanskrit and a translation in
each case.
Shailendra Raj Mehta
mehta at mgmt.purdue.edu
PATANJALI TRANSLATIONS
I'd be very grateful if members of this list could identify what they
consider the best translation(s) of the Yoga-Sutras which at least 
include the romanized sanskrit text and preferably some commentarial 
material.
Peter Moore, University of Kent at Canterbury
          id <02809-0 at mailhub.liverpool.ac.uk>; Sun, 15 Aug 1993 17:26:04 +0100
Comment: Indology mailing list
Originator: indology at liverpool.ac.uk
Sender: indology at liverpool.ac.uk
X-Listserver-Version: 5.5 -- UNIX ListServer by Anastasios Kotsikonas
PATANJALI TRANSLATIONS
