Penn-in-India Summer Program for Undergraduates
Penn-in-India#
May 27 - July 8, 1994#
#
#
#
The Program#
Lasting six weeks over the summer, the Penn in India program is designed
to provide students a unique opportunity to examine cultural,
socio-economic and political issues of contemporary Indian life through
academic study as well as personal cultural experiences. The Program,
based in Pune, India, offers a wide and exciting range of courses in
Indian religions and philosophies, performing arts, India's business world
and investment climate, and traditional medicine. Students will choose two
courses and will have the added option of studying an Indian language.
Courses will earn Penn credits and will be taught by Indian and American
faculty.  The classes will be held at the University of Poona campus which
is the Indian insitution affiliated with the Penn-in-India program. As a
supplemental 'hands-on' experience, students will have an opportunityt to
participate in a community project  and will have an opportunity to seek 
internships with affiliated local museums, industries, hospitals,
depending on their areas of interest. Arrangements have been made for the
accepted students to be housed with Indian families in the area.#
#
The program is open to all undergraduates enrolled in any educational
institution. Selection will be based on academic record, and aptitude to
adapt to foreign culture. There are no prerequisites in terms of any
course work or any prior exposure to India.#
#
#
Location#
Pune, with a population approaching 4 million, is situated on the Deccan
plateau, 120 miles southeast of Bombay. Once the seat of the mighty
Maratha empire, and the summer residence of the Bombay government in
colonial times, Pune enjoys a delightful climate, and is a complex blend
of the ancient and the modern. Though linked by air to Bombay, Delhi,
Bangalore, and other major cities, it is best reached by the fast trains
from Bombay that make a scenic climb up the Western Ghats (coastal range). #
As a premier seat  of learning, Pune contains some of India's most
prestigious educational institutions, such as the University of Poona,
Deccan College, Fergusson College, The Film and Television Institute, The
Center for Development of Advanced Computing, and research institutes such
as the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute and other institutes engaged
in research in the field of Ayurveda (the traditional Indian medicinal
system). Given such a diverse intellectual milieu, Pune attracts
internationally renowned scholars from all over the world. Cultural
institutions involved with Indian dance, music, and other forms of art
abound. Pune's active cultural life steeped in tradition, and its
emergence as one of India's most dynamic centers of new small and
medium-sized industry, all bolster a cosmopolitan atmosphere  and make it
a city of choice for many Indians and foreigners#
#
#
#
APPLICATION AND REGISTRATION#
The application deadline is March 1, 1994. All applications must be
accompanied by a non-refundable $35 fee to cover processing costs and
up-to-date resume. On admission a non-refundable $300 is required to hold
the place: this will be credited toward the final cost of the program.
Seats being limited, early applications are strongly advised, as
admissions will close as soon as the required number of students have been
accepted.#
#
COSTS#
Tuition (2 courses)             $2,410#
Program Cost*                   $1,500#
#
(* includes discounted group rate international round-trip travel between
New York and Pune, local travel for field trips, room and board , tickets
for cultural programs, and language instruction. This cost is subject to
minor modifications depending on any drastic changes in the cost of
international travel.)#
#
Courses#
Students will register for two out of the following four courses:#
#
South Asia Regional Studies (SARS) 101: Legacy of India#
This is a course about the mythology, religion, and philosophy of India.
This course will introduce students to the stories, themes, and issues in
traditional Indian religious, mythological, and philosophical thought,
while examining their import in the larger socio-cultural context of
India. Readings of primary sources will be available in English
translation. Visits to important sites, attendance at religious
performances, and guest lectures will supplement regular class sessions.
(Interested students who have already taken one or more courses on
traditional India are encouraged to inquire about the possibility of
arranging special directed study for academic credit).#
#
(SARS 301): Performing Arts: Classical and Regional  #
This course will survey some of the main classical performance art
traditions of India making special use of the resources in the Bombay-Pune
area. Special attention will be given to the Hindustani art music
tradition, for which Bombay and Pune are renowned. Several field trips
will be made to attend performances, and to visit artists' residences and
schools of music and dance. Students may also have the opportunity to take
lessons in sitar, tabla, or vocal music outside of class hours. Class
lectures, reading and listening assignments and discussions will focus on
acquiring basic listening skills and will explore the social, cultural,
and historical contexts of performing arts in South Asia. #
#
(SARS 404 / Econ 023): Topics in Economic Development: India's Corporate
World and Economic Reforms #
This course primarily aims at discussing recent changes in Indian economic
policy, and at situating India within the larger global economy.  Issues
to be discussed will range from the legislation affecting Indian
corporations, to recent liberalization of economic policies and foreign
collaborations. The discussions will also explore comparative paradigms
between the policies and economic activities of India and other developing
countries.#
#
(SARS 302): Ayurvedic Medicine: Research and Practice #
Over 3000 years old, Ayurveda is the traditional healthcare system of
India and Southeast Asia which views a balance between body, mind and
environment as essential to health.  Ayurveda employs medicinal plants,
minerals and animal products to treat diseases. The course will explore
both the ancient and modern practices of this science with the help of
academic texts, as well as practical training such as discussions of the
clinical methods and the herbs used in the preparation of Ayurvedic
medications.  As part of the course, trips to clinics, herb gardens and
modern pharmaceutical facilities will also be organized.#
#
Language Instruction#
The program will seek to arrange for instruction in any major Indian
language that students are interested in. Students will be encouraged to
acquire verbal and written skills related to their social, cultural and
educational experiences.  The language instruction will be arranged on an
individual tutorial basis.#
#
Internship#
After the classes are over, students may have an opportunity to
participate in internships with an Indian organization (corporations,
research institutes, self-help groups, hospitals, etc.) for a few weeks.
The program director will coordinate such assignments between the students
and the institutes. #
#
For further information#
#
Dr. Surendra Gambhir, Director#
Penn-in-India Program#
South Asia Regional Studies#
University of Pennsylvania#
820 Williams Hall#
Philadelphia, PA. 19104-6305#
Phone: (215) 898-7475#
FAX: (215) 573 2138#
Email : sgambhir at sas.upenn.edu#
#
or#
#
Penn Summer Abroad#
College of General Studies#
University of Pennsylvania#
3440 Market Street, Suite 100#
Philadelphia, PA. 19104-6305#
Phone: (215) 898-5738#
FAX: (215) 573-2053#
