Yogasutras and other texts (ftp availability)
Two retranscriptions of the Yogasutras recently published in Indology
by Ashok Aklujkar are now available on
	blackbox.hacc.washington.edu [128.95.200.1] 
	in directory pub/indic:
one paragraph descriptions of each version follow---
  [ This is the IASS/CSX 8-bit encoded transcription of the Yogasutras
  as distributed by Ashok Aklujkar on Indology.  It has been converted
  by ridgeway at blackbox.hacc.washington.edu (addressee for notices of 
  transcription defects).  Aklujkar's original notice and apparatus 
  follows (the notes on transcription, of course, no longer apply). ]
file:yogasutr.csx
  [ This is the pseudo-Windows ANSI 8-bit encoded transcription of the 
  Yogasutras as distributed by Ashok Aklujkar on Indology.  It has been 
  converted by ridgeway at blackbox.hacc.washington.edu (addressee for notices 
  of transcription defects).    Aklujkar's original notice and apparatus 
  follows (the notes on transcription, of course, no longer apply). ]
file:yogasutr.ans
 The 'pseudo-Windows ANSI' encoding is that used by the HACCINDC outline fonts;
 this scheme is based on conforming as closely as possible to the 'normal'
 Windows character set while accomodating the special characters for Indic.
 Yogasutr.ans should be treated as ANSI text for import into your word
 processor (or 'do not convert' for Windows Write).  E.g., where both 
 IASS/CSX and the IBM-PC character set have a-acute in position 160,
 both Windows ANSI and haccindc pseudo-ANSI have a-acute in position 225.
 The HACCINDC fonts themselves are in the outlines directory.
  A haccindc.com DOS-level VGA font loader is available for viewing pseudo-
  ANSI text files outside Windows.  This ONLY works for VGA video cards on PCs.
REMINDER: all these files must be downloaded in binary mode.  The end-of-line
convention is according to DOS.
N.B. the following files are also now available as pseudo-ANSI transcriptions
of texts previously made available in IASS/CSX.
	sutrapat.ans  Paniniya sutras
	bddhcrtm.ans  buddhacaritum of asvaghosha
	rasratna.ans  the rasaratnasamuccaya
	saulawi.ans   word index to saundaryalahari
	saula.ans     the saundaryalahari
        brhat.ans     brhatsamhita
As these are eight-bit transcriptions, they must be ftp'ed in binary mode.
As all things in this world are transitory, the ftp server on blackbox is
likely to prove to be; persons interested in any of these transcribed
texts would be well advised to take copies forthwith and preserve them
locally.
cheers,
Tom
As always, if you need help getting these files by ftp, please talk to the
local computer support people at your institution.
