More Details for One Year After Ayodhya
One Year After Ayodhya: Conference, Concert, Exhibition, Rally
On December 6, 1992, the Babri Masjid, a 500-year old historical
and cultural monument belonging to all Indians, was demolished 
in a premeditated act of political vandalism. In the violence which
followed, more than two thousand people were killed.
One year later, the Indian Progressive Study Group (IPSG), along
with other organisations, is marking the occasion with a series of 
events aimed at finding ways of ensuring tha such tragedies are
never allowed to happen again.
We would like to invite you to attend all or part of these
programmes.
[I] Saturday, December 4: 
CONFERENCE - Perspectives on Democratic Renewal
- Unravelling the Political Crisis in India
- Present World Situation and Implications for South Asia
- Which Way Forward?
SPEAKERS: 
Prof. Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, Columbia University
Prof. Sugata Bose, Tufts University
Dr. Raj Mishra, IPSG Michigan
Sandra Smith, Women for Democratic Solutions, Toronto
V. Siddharth, Secretary, AIPSG
Prabhu Mohapatra, Sampradayikta Virodhi Andolan, Delhi
Dr. Saurabh Dube, Delhi University
Registration: 10 am  ($2 registration; $1 for students)
Venue: 501 Schermerhorn, Columbia University
[Lunch will be available]
[II] Sunday, December 5
2 pm: EXHIBITION "Hum Sab Ayodhya" on history of 
Ayodhya
Venue: Lobby of SIA Building, Columbia University
4 pm: READINGS BY PROMINENT AUTHORS
Shashi Tharoor ++ Amitav Ghosh ++ Meena Alexander  
Gita Mehta
6 pm: CONCERT
Lakshmi Shankar, Hindustani Classical and Bhajans
Ritha Devi, Odissi Dance
Indrani Rahman, Danseuse
Venue: Altschul Auditorium, SIA Building, 
Columbia University
Tickets: $10 and $5 (students)
[III] Monday, December 6
12 pm: RALLY outside Indian Consulate 
           (5th Ave. & 64th Street)
To demand that those involved in organising and inciting
communal violence be brought to justice
NB: A bunch of students will leave Columbia's Broadway 
gates at 11:15 am on Monday to travel together to the 
Consulate by bus.
For more information, contact IPSG at (212) 749-5719
or email: siddharthv at delphi.com
