"Festival of Krishna" by Harsha Dehejia on Amazon.com
Friends:
I have pleasure in sending you this announcement of my latest book.
Regards.
Harsha V. Dehejia
Professor of Indian Studies, Carleton University
Ottawa, ON., Canada.
Dear Amazon.com Customer,
As someone who has purchased or rated books by Harsha Dehejia, you might like to know that Festival of Krishna will be released on April 1, 2008.  You can pre-order yours by following the link below.
Festival of Krishna Harsha Dehejia 
Price: 
$60.00
Release Date: April 1, 2008 
Book DescriptionThe book takes us on a journey of the loves of Krishna, his lilas, kridas, his madhurya and above all the raas lila. But Krishna is not only for the royalty and nobility, he belongs to the people, the potter and the puppeteer, the bride and the mother, for he is celebrated at every village fair and town. Equally the modern artist does not remain untouched by the magic of Krishna and depecits him on his palette. And as the journey ends we are privy to some of the most glorious moments of five magnificient centuries of Krishna paintings.
More to Explore
See more in Arts & Photography > Religious
More New Releases
Top Sellers
Recommended for You
Sincerely,
Amazon.comhttp://amazon.com
We hope you found this message to be useful. However, if you'd rather not receive future e-mails of this sort from Amazon.com, please opt-out here.
Please note that product prices and availability are limited time offers and are subject to change. Prices and availability were accurate at the time this newsletter was sent; however, they may differ from those you see when you visit Amazon.com.
(c) 2008 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Amazon, Amazon.com and the Amazon.com logo and 1-Click are registered trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates.
Amazon.com, 1200 12th Ave. S., Suite 1200, Seattle, WA 98144-2734.
Reference 8649110
Please note that this message was sent to the following e-mail address: harshadehejia at hotmail.com 
