Early Inscribed Hero Stones in Tamil Nadu
dear prof. tieken
  i am not sure why the word order is irregular? would it be possible to explain. it seems quite normal to me, and so is the conclusion on cattle raids as almost all sangam literature points to it and if this from 2nd centurey BCE (and sangam literature from 2nd century CE) it seems reasonable to conclude that literacy wasnt all that rare. or am i wrong?
  regards
  ravi
"Tieken, H.J.H." <H.J.H.Tieken at LET.LEIDENUNIV.NL> wrote:
  Dear Richard,
Mahadevan's conclusions regarding literacy in early Tamilnadu should be
treated carefully. See my review of Mahadevan's edition of the Tamil
Brahmi inscriptions, which has appeared in ZDMG 157/2 (2007),
pp.507-511. In it I discuss, among other inscriptions, no. 54. If my
interpretation is correct, it would follow that the scibe who was
responsible for engraving the text could himself neither read nor write.
He was a stone mason, whose job consisted mainly in copying the letters
of his examplar, which for him was just a string of images. I, for one,
am unable to follow Mahadevan where he argues that the inscriptions
testify to the widespread literacy in Tamilnadu at the period and that
literacy had spread to all strata (sic) of the population. The same
question, namely if the stone mason could read or write, arises in
connection with one of the inscriptions discussed by Rajan. In any case,
his inscription no. 1 shows a highly curious word order. Actually, it
seems to consist of three parts: 1. kal "stone", 2. petutiyan antavan,
personal name, 3. kutal ur a kol, "of kutal ur" and "stealing of
cattle". Rajan translates: "This hero stone is raised to a man called
tiyan antavan of petu village who died in the cattle raid that happened
at kudal ur", ignoring the irregular word order.
Apart from all this, the use of the northern Brahmi script does testify
to an amazingly sharp observation of Tamil phonology, in which the
voiceless and voiced plosives are allophones.
Kind regards
Herman Tieken
Salomon
Sent: dinsdag 4 maart 2008 3:50
Re: Early Inscribed Hero Stones in Tamil Nadu
Interesting discovery. George Hart's comments on early literacy in Tamil
seem to accord well with those of I. Mahadevan in his Early Tamil
Epigraphy (2003), pp. 160-1.
Richard Salomon
Sent: Monday, March 03, 2008 6:38 PM
Early Inscribed Hero Stones in Tamil Nadu
Tamil 
conclusively 
early 
small 
Sangam 
surprising 
It 
and 
Looking for last minute shopping deals?  Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.
