Indian Temple Architecutre and Iconography, New Publications
The following books have been recently published as volumes 1 & 2 of the proceedings of the 18th conference of the European Association of South Asian Archaeologists, held at the British Museum, London, July 2005. They have been published by The British Association for South Asian Studies, The British Academy under the general editorship of Michael Willis. Both books are available from Arthur Probsthain, London:  http://www.oriental-african-books.com/
1) Religion and Art: New Issues in Indian Iconography and Iconology, edited by Claudine Bautze-Picron, Volume 1 of the proceedings of the 18th conference of the European Association of South Asian Archaeologists, London: The British Association for South Asian Studies/The British Academy, 2008. ISBN 978-9553924-2-9. 
Foreword
The deva with the swaddling cloth, On the Western origins of Gandharan birth iconography and their implications for the textual and art history of the Buddhist Saviour?s nativity  
Martina Stoye
The banquet scene on the base of a seated Buddha in Gandhara
Nakao Odani
Not the Buddha but Hercules on the gold token from Tillya-Tepe: a review of the relevant legends and images
Katsumi Tanabe
Late Buddhist Art in Archaeological Context, Some reflections on the sanctuary of Tapa Sardar 
Anna Filigenzi
Another reliquary vase from Wardak and consecrating fire rites in Gandhara
Harry Falk
A Funerary Monument to Prabhavatigupta? 
Hans Bakker
Sa?kar?a?a/Balarama and the Mountain: a new Attribute
Doris Srinivasan
A recumbent effigy of devi from Badoh ? its sculptural tradition and archaeological context
Anne Casile
A Solitary Vi??u Sculpture from Bihar in the National Museum of Nepal, Kathmandu
Gerd J.R. Mevissen
Ga?esa with a dagger
Gouriswar Bhattacharya
An early Nepalese Ga??avyuhasutra manuscript, An attempt to discover connections between text and illuminations
Eva Allinger
Buddhist book-covers from Eastern India, The book-covers of the manuscript SL68 at the Coll?ge de France, Paris
Claudine Bautze-Picron
The ?portraits? of the Co?a king Rajaraja I (985 ? 1014)
Vincent Lef?vre
Heroic Discourse in Indian Iconography
Archana Verma
2)  The Temple in South Asia, edited by Adam Hardy, Volume 2 of the proceedings of the 18th conference of the European Association of South Asian Archaeologists, London, 2005, London: The British Association for South Asian Studies/The British Academy, 2007, ISBN 978-0-9553924-3-6.
Early Architecture and its Transformations: New Evidence for Vernacular Origins for The Indian Temple 
Michael W Meister                                                                                                                                                                          
The Apsidal Temple of Taxila: Traditional Hypothesis and Possible New Interpretations
Luca Colliva                                                                                                                                                                                    
The Archaeological Remains of Ramgarh Hill: a Report
Anne Casile                                                                                                                                                                                      
Architectural Features of the Medieval Temples surviving in Maharashtra
Gerard Foekema                                                                                                                                                                              
Parts and Wholes: the Story of the Gavaks.a
Adam Hardy                                                                                                                                                                                     
Cholas, Pandyas, and ?Imperial Temple Culture? in Medieval Tamilnadu
Leslie C Orr                                                                                                                                                                                      
Regional Pasts, Imperial Present: Architecture and Memory in Vijayanagara-Period Karnataka
Crispin Branfoot                                                                                                                                                                              
New Research on Paharpur Buddhist Monastery (North Bengal)
Jean-Yves Breuil and Sandrine Gill                                                                                                                                             
Defining the Sacred Space: Painted Ceilings in Dung Dkar and Tsaparang in Western Tibet
Helmut F Neumann and  Heidi A Neumann                                                                                                                                             
