From pf at CIX.CO.UK  Wed Jul  2 09:13:00 2008
From: pf at CIX.CO.UK (Peter Flugel)
Date: Wed, 02 Jul 08 10:13:00 +0100
Subject: World view and theory in Indian philosoph y26-30 April, 2009,              Barcelona
Message-ID: <161227082812.23782.12694593666989729442.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

The organisers (Piotr Balcerowicz, Johannes Bronkhorst, Claus Oetke,
Mart?n Sevilla Rodr?guez) wish to announce the following Indological
event next year in Spain:

International Conference "World view and theory in Indian philosophy"
(Congreso Internacional "Teor?a e ideolog?a en las filosof?as de la
India")26-30 April, 2009, Barcelona, Spain
www.orient.uw.edu.pl/pl/indologia/barcelona
email: IndiaInBarcelona at hotmail.com 

-------------------------------------------
International Conference
World view and theory in Indian philosophy
(Congreso Internacional "Teor?a e ideolog?a en las filosof?as de la
India")
email: IndiaInBarcelona at hotmail.com
www.orient.uw.edu.pl/pl/indologia/barcelona 

Dear Colleague, 

The Organisers of the International Conference "World view and theory in
Indian philosophy", to be held in Barcelona, 26-30 April 2009, have
thepleasure of inviting you to the Conference. 

SUBJECT
The International Conference "World view and theory in Indian philosophy"
mediates between research on the Indian tradition of thought and other
branches of cultural studies.
The general scope of the conference embraces the following questions: 1)
Can we at all speak of ideologies or world views in Indian philosophies,
or in classical Indian culture in general? 2) What would be the
difference between a philosophical theory and a world view and is it
useful to draw such a distinction in Indian context? 3) Are there
detectable mutual influences between the formation of theories and
possession of a world view in certain branches of Indian philosophy? 4)
Can one extrapolate results obtained from 
studies of the Indian philosophical tradition to other areas?
Another set of questions concerns the background of world views and 
philosophical theories in India, be it social, cultural, religious, 
linguistic or other. To this category belong questions such as: Does 
language have a traceable impact on the formation of world views,
ideologies or philosophical theories? Do philosophical ideas reflect
social structure or political institutions? And vice versa, are theories
and philosophical concepts reflected in institutions in classical Indian
society? Are the relations between "background" phenomena on the one hand
and ideologies and theories on the other universal or specific to
pre-modern India?
The idea of an "empirical epistemology" devoted, among others, to the 
exploration of actual ways of forming opinions as well as acknowledged
norms of sanctioning beliefs in different cultures and societies provides
a framework in which the topic of the present symposium can be placed. 
Theoretical philosophy in India plays a significant role because it 
developed an explicit doctrine of norms meant to regulate the formation
of opinions. The possibility to demonstrate that the account presented in
the framework of Indian logic and epistemology is fragmentary and open to
criticism shows that empirical and theoretic aspects of epistemology can
be mediated. Therefore epistemology and logic in India fall within the
scope but do not figure as the only important themes of the Conference. 

PARTICIPANTS
We welcome participants in two categories:
(1) Speakers who present their papers, and
(2) General audience who participates without presenting a paper. 

PAPERS AND ABSTRACTS
As a rule, 30 minutes are allotted for each paper (20 min) and an 
accompanying discussion (10 min). There will be enough time for
unrestricted discussion and personal contact during the conference as
well. Our intention is to avoid a hasty and stressful succession of
numerous papers in a day but, instead, to provide relaxed atmosphere for
fruitful exchange of thoughts and ideas in a pleasant historical
environment.
Short abstracts will be expected by 1 December, 2008.
Please note that the presentation of the paper by those for whom this is
the first occasion to participate in an international conference on
Indian philosophy and epistemology will be decided on the basis of the
submitted abstract.
Participation without presenting a paper is also possible.
Papers will be subsequently published in a separate conference volume. 

THE LANGUAGE OF THE CONFERENCE
The language of the conference is English. 

THE DATE OF THE CONFERENCE
The Conference is planned to take place on 26-30 April, 2009. 

THE DURATION
The Conference sessions are planned to continue for four days 
(Monday-Thursday) in order to avoid too many papers on one day and to
give the participants enough time for relaxed discussion. Participants
are expected to arrive by Sunday night. 

THE VENUE
The Conference will be held in Casa Asia, Barcelona. Barcelona is very
well connected in terms of transport, with a number of airlines,
including economic carriers. 

CONFERENCE FEE
The conference fee of 100 EURO covers:
(1) the right to participate in the conference,
(2) conference materials,
(3) transportation from hotel(s) to conference venue,
(4) Two dinners ("get-together reception" in the beginning and the
farewell dinner).
The conference fee does not include other costs, such as meals (except
for two dinners mentioned #4), accommodation etc. 

ORGANISING COMMITTEE: 

(1) Organisers: 

Dr. habil. Piotr Balcerowicz (Warsaw University)
p.balcerowicz at uw.edu.pl 

Professor Dr. Johannes Bronkhorst (Universit? de Lausanne)
johannes.bronkhorst at unil.ch 

Professor Dr. Claus Oetke (Stockholm University)
claus.oetke at orient.su.se 

Dr. Mart?n Sevilla Rodr?guez (Universidad de Oviedo)
msevilla at uniovi.es 

(2) Co-organiser: 

Casa Asia
Ave. Diagonal 373
08008 Barcelona
www.casaasia.org




(3) Advisory board of the Organising Committee: 

Dr. Juan Arnau (Universidad de Barcelona)
Professor Juan Luis Vermal (Illes Balears) 




-------------------------------------------------------------------------
REGISTRATION FORM:
Name:
University / Address:
e-mail:
I wish to present a paper: YES / NO (delete inapplicable)
(Tentative) title of the paper: 

Please return preferably by 1 July 2008 to: IndiaInBarcelona at hotmail.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

 




