a vast variety of different forms. From ancient painting and sculpture, via shadow puppetry, dances, vast 
community plays and mask drama, to contemporary shrines, calendars and diwali effigies. To these one could 
add an ever growing catalogue of TV series, films and cartoons. 
Visualising The Ramayana is a day of presentations and discussions exploring some of this remarkable richness 
that flourishes across Asia to this day. 
This event is a part of the programme accompanying The Ramayana - Love and Valour in India's Great Epic, 
a major free exhibition at the British Library, until 14 September 2008. For more information please visit 
www.bl.uk/ramayana 
PROGRAMME 
10.00 Registration and coffee 
10.20 Welcome by Michael O'Keefe, Head Of South Asian Collections, British Library 
10.25 Seeing the words and speaking the pictures 
Mary Brockington 
Narrative poem, drama, puppet play or television blockbuster; theological treatise, folk tale 
or social commentary; expressed in words, sculpture or painting; by people of differing faiths, 
culture and nationality. How has the original romance been adapted to fit their needs, and 
what has been the impact of the visual texts on the verbal retellings? 
Mary Brockington is associate of the Sanskrit Department, School of Asian Studies at the 
University of Edinburgh 
11.10 
Shadow Puppet Traditions of India and Indonesia 
Stuart Blackburn and Matthew Cohen 
Stuart Blackburn is a Senior Research Associate at the School of Oriental and African Studies in 
London. His studies of folklore, performance and oral genres in India include Inside The Drama-
House: Rama Stories and Shadow Puppets in South India (1996); Moral Fictions: Tamil Folktales 
from Oral Tradition (2001); and Print, Folklore and Nationalism in Colonial South India (2003); 
and Himalayan Tribal Tales: Oral Stories from Arunachal Pradesh (2008, forthcoming). 
Matthew Isaac Cohen began his studies of wayang kulit in 1988 and has several phases training 
with senior puppeteers in Java and performing across the island. He has gone on to present 
traditional and contemporary wayang kulit with gamelan groups in the United Kingdom, the 
United States, The Netherlands and Israel and is a senior lecturer in the Department of Drama and 
Theatre at Royal Holloway, University of London, where he teaches Asian theatre, puppetry and 
performance studies. Publications include Demon Abduction: A Wayang Ritual Drama from West 
Java and The Komedie Stamboel: Popular Theater in Colonial Indonesia, 1891-1903, winner of 
the 2008 Benda Prize from the Association for Asian Studies. 
12.00 
Brief break - preview of Nina Paley's film Sita Sings The Blues. 
12.05 
Normative and Performative: Reflections on the Roles of the Ramayana in Cambodian Tradition 
Ashley Thompson 
Ashley Thompson (University of Leeds) is a specialist in Southeast Asian Cultural History, with 
a focus on classical and pre-modern art and literature. Much of her work concerns Hindu and 
Buddhist sculpture and painting, cult, ritual and other performance practices and texts, as well 
as issues related to gender, memory and cultural transition. Her publications include Dance in 
Cambodia (co-authored with T. Shapiro-Phim 1999); Calling the Souls. A Khmer Ritual Text 
(2005); and most recently Portraits of Cambodia: Angkor Revisited in What's the Use of Art: 
Situating Asian 'Art Objects' in Performance, Ritual, and the Everyday (2007). Forthcoming 
work includes Performative Realities: Nobody's Possession in At the Edge of the Forest: Essays 
in Honor of David Chandler. 
12.45 
Lunch Break 
