BASAS - INDOLOGY WEBSITE
03 07 08
The site encourages communication between individual Indologists and all the other members. Reticence, a common disease among researchers, of necessity ceases to be a hindrance.That is the best gainDB
BASAS - INDOLOGY WEBSITE
The INDOLOGY website, http://indology.info, has been financially supported 
by the British Association for South Asian Studies (BASAS) for the last 
three years.  The support is for up to ?1000 p.a.
This support has been spent on a complete overhaul of the website, and on 
subsequent gradual expansion, link-checking and general maintenance.
I have just learned that at the next BASAS council meeting, to be held 
next week, the item below will be discussed.
I have been asked to provide information to help BASAS think about this 
issue.  To that end, I'm asking for your help.
If the INDOLOGY website has been helpful, important, or valuable to you, 
your students or colleagues in any way, could you send me a brief note 
saying so, and if possible indicating how?  Just a few sentences would be 
adequate.
It would be particularly helpful if you were able to point to specific 
intellectual or academic reasons why http://indology.info has been useful.
If you have clicked the BASAS (formerly SSAS) icon on the indology.info 
website and found your way to the BASAS website, that too would be of 
interest.
If you can think of any other information that would help the BASAS to 
evaluate the academic usefulness of the http://indology.info website, 
please let me know.
Sincerely,
Dominik
Dr Dominik Wujastyk
Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellow
University College London
BASAS - INDOLOGY WEBSITE
9. Continuation of Indology website?
Who do you think might be best placed to speak to this item? How do Council
reach a sound conclusion as to whether the Indology website should continue
to receive funds of some ?1,000.00 per annum for maintenance? How is the
usefulness of this academic asset to be properly measured?
Any suggestions would be most welcome
      Meet people who discuss and share your passions. Go to http://in.promos.yahoo.com/groups/bestofyahoo/
