Dating Old Tamil Cankam poetry
Dear Professor Tieken,
I did react before reading your book, as the its conclusions seemed so  
strange to me.  I must say, after reading it and going very carefully  
over every page, that impression has only grown stronger.  I am  
currently working through the Akananuru, and I find evidence  
everywhere that the dating of the first 3 centuries CE is correct.  I  
don't think this is the place to go over all the arguments once again  
1. The number and use of Sanskrit/Prakrit borrowings is quite  
different from texts that are later (like the Cilappatikaaram, roughly  
5th century AD).
2. The use of language and its form is clearly more archaic than in  
slightly later texts.
3. The culture described is exactly what we would expect from  
archeological work done on that period.
4. The chronology of the poets and kings is internally consistent --  
this includes thousands of names.  This could not have been remembered  
for many centuries so accurately.
5. The names are different from later texts and inscriptions -- they  
are clearly older and belong to an older stratum.
6. The description of Muciri accords perfectly with archeological  
finds and Roman texts from the first three centuries CE -- see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muziris 
.
7. In order to date Sangam texts in the 10th century, we would have to  
move all of Tamil literature up by at least 7 centuries (and this  
includes dozens of texts whose dates have been carefully researched),  
at least everything before Kamban.  This would be a feat of  
legerdemain that would be equivalent to dating the Rig Veda in the 3rd  
century BCE.  That, of course, would mess up our Sanskrit chronology  
somewhat -- could the Rig Veda be an elaborate and ingenious forgery  
that was made to elevate the status of the Brahmins?
8. In working through the Akananuru, it is immediately apparent that  
poems attributed to different poets (ParaNar and Kapilar, for example)  
have quite different styles and different sensibilities.  It would  
appear virtually certain that they were written by different people.
9. As for the names, poems do give slightly different names for the  
same king.  The fact is, these names are not found in later times --  
and the names Irumporai, Perunkatunkoo, Katunkoo do occur in Sangam  
literature.
8. It is always possible to take issue, one by one, with items used to  
establish chronology, especially in South Asia, where dating often  
seems tenuous.  It is necessary to look over a whole system of  
correlating evidence to arrive at a date.  In the case of Sangam  
literature, surely there is so much evidence pointing to the first 3  
centuries CE that the accepted dating becomes unassailable.
Yet it would appear that, however much it is flogged, this horse  
refuses to die.
George Hart
On Jul 31, 2008, at 6:28 AM, Tieken, H.J.H. wrote:
