Clarification about Spoken Sanskrit
dear friends,
I certainly agree with Dr. Ganesan's veiws.
further I want to clarify some points here.
The spoken sanskrit is conceived to be a small step to further studies of
kalidasas language. No body, by chatting over idli or coffee, is claiming
that they are far superior to bana or bhasa.
how to introduce sanskrit students in first step? it is the question mostly
encountered by Sanskrit educators today. people and mostly students in
India are afraid of sanskrit becuase of its so called difficulty. Spoken
sanskrit aims to quell this fear by introducing a simple form easy to
understand the sanskrit initially. then they can go to high language of bana
etc.
interestingly sanskrit through ages is spoken/ written in a very simple way
right from vedas to patanjali sabara kalidasa etc. but sometimes the style
had to be somekind of flowerish to attract the selected few, little bit
unnatural. we can not compare the simple language of kalidasa and bana.
there is very much gap in ages. hence it is aimed to bring back to original
state. do not we want to go back to beautifull language of patanjali? or
want to read bana only or else all the unnatural sanskrit of poets in
between? the beauty always lies in simplicity. I am not the person to hate
bana etc. but I admire more patanjali Shabara or vedic sanskrit for its
beauti in simplicity.
moreover mainly it is the question of how to introduce the first time
student indian student to sanskrit? since he already knows many/ or
most words (the european student sitting differently without the smell of
sanskrit (samskrita-gandha-vidhurah) being a diffrent case) it is only a
step to introduce him to syntax of sanskrit and few grammatically correct
words. exactly that what this movement is doing.
why dont we want/ can not revive the spoken sanskrit across the
subcontinent? is not Yehudi a perfect example. nobody of spoken sanskrit
champions wants to destroy all other languages and to introduce the sanskrit
in their place. nobody is dreaming about that. they are creating awareness
of this language.
regarding the the most brilliant assassination in history!
it is strange that still many people seem to be  happy without panini!  is
it? I do not know exactly.  he simply created a much needed grammar of
saskrit of his time. sanskrit vanished from common people for different
reasons (may be invasions of barbarians or others no body know exactly). but
panini survived because of different reasons. (for he was the base of vedic
and classical studies that still continue through the ages). *is it panini's
fault in writing a highly defined grammar that is still ahead in many
themes.  *stella's comments make no sense. sorry.
if sanskrit is changeble and if at all chages in futures, what is the fault?
we welcome it.
veeranaryana pandurangi
  In that sense Panini, presumably unwittingly,
Veeranarayana N.K. Pandurangi
Head, Dept of Darshanas,
Yoganandacharya Bhavan,
Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Samskrita University, Madau, post
Bhankrota, Jaipur, 302026.
