Spoken Sanskrit and Spoken Sanskrit
Years ago, the late highly learned Sanskrit scholar Dr. Janaki stayed  
at our house.  She showed me a column she had written in Sanskrit  
about the McEnroe - Borg tennis competition.  Her command of the  
language was awesome -- she was capable to expressing just about  
anything, using the full resources of the language.  I still remember  
getting up one morning about 6:00 and encountering a bright-eyed  
Janaki chattering away in fluent (and extremely rapid) Sanskrit, and  
struggling with little success to process what she said in my still  
numbed state.  The problem, I feel, with the kind of spoken Sanskrit  
we're talking about is not that it borrows Hindi words or Tamil  
syntax.  As Adheesh says, Sanskrit has been borrowing or innovating  
since the beginning (many of its most common words are Dravidian).   
The problem is that spoken "Sanskrit" is incapable of expressing a  
complex thought -- "How many Idlis did you eat today" is not exactly a  
profound idea.  Real languages are highly complex because they need to  
be used to express complex ideas.  Sanskrit is no exception.  As Prof.  
Nair notes, languages such as Malayalam can make use of the entire  
Sanskrit vocabulary to express thoughts that are extremely complicated  
(one might also remark that Malayalam, which was a dialect of Tamil  
1000 years ago, also retains a huge inherited Dravidian vocabulary).    
If one goes to a village and encounters the (rare) illiterate  
Malayali, one would discover that while that person might not know all  
the Sanskrit words used in a scholarly essay, he or she can still use  
the language for expressing quite complicated ideas.  Sadly, neo- 
Sanskrit seems incapable of being used this way.  It is a consciously  
dumbed-down language that eschews its own grand tradition.  If people  
enjoy learning it in a rudimentary way to express simple things,  
obviously there's nothing wrong with that.  The problem as I see it  
lies in the fact that these "Sanskrit" speakers often think that just  
because they use the language in a rudimentary way, they are somehow  
connecting with the great intellectual tradition that the language  
contains.  Or, worse, that they are embodiments of some "Hindu-ness"  
that is inherent in the language.  Their rudimentary use of the  
language fosters a kind of arrogance and sense of superiority that is  
unwarranted.  I remember reading the Rasagangadhara with Pandit  
Seshadrinathan and remarking on the breathtaking boldness of the  
beginning verses.  When I suggested that Jagannatha seemed a bit  
arrogant and overbearing, Seshadrinathan remarked "sthaane."  Yes, if  
someone knows Sanskrit 5% as well as Jagannatha, then he or she is  
entitled to be proud.  Saying "How many idlis did you eat today?" in  
neo-Sanskrit may be fun, but it's hardly grounds for the sort of  
overweening pride that such speakers often seem to project.
George Hart
On Aug 13, 2008, at 3:33 AM, adheesh sathaye wrote:
