Clarification about Spoken Sanskrit
Dear Lovers of spoken Sanskrit,
I agree with Dr. Ganeshan. Here are in addition to several Sanskrit journals  and even daily Sanskrit News Papers, thereare All India Sanskrit Debates in calcutta, Patna, Jagannatrhpuri, Banaras, Allahabad, Lucknow, Delhi, Jaipur, Tirupati, Bombay etc. Every year where haudreds of participants and the winners get medals, first three speakers.As for modern Sanskrit I give below an example of modern sanskrit poetry. Is it inferior to Kalidasa or Banabhatta. Can we unnderstand it easyly? It does require the sound background of Panini:
"Yaah kundastabakanti shrititate muktaa-kalaapantakii
Svaante yaasca sudhaakarosra-vigalat-piiyuusha-sekantakii,
Kinchaandolita-dugdha-sindhu-laharii-dhaaranukaarantaki
Prodhaastah Vrshabhaanujaa-srtuti-kathaa-garbhaa giro durlabhaah
Rasik Vihari Joshi  
De: Indology [mailto:INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk] En nombre de Stella Sandahl
Enviado el: Mi?rcoles, 20 de Agosto de 2008 08:49 a.m.
Para: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Asunto: Re: Clarification about Spoken Sanskrit
Dear Dr. Ganesan,
Our definition of a 'dead language' is simply not the same. To me a  
language is dead when it has a normative grammar which is  
unchangeable. In that sense Panini, presumably unwittingly,  
assassinated Sanskrit already 500 or 400 B.C.- the most brilliant  
assassination in history!
Jan Houben actually proves the point by his statement that "In 1,000  
years time, Sanskrit will still be the same, but every other language  
will have changed beyond recognition."
A living language changes, a dead one stays the same, regardless how  
many journals, articles, literary works etc. etc. are written in that  
language. The only "new" thing about the so called spoken (and also  
written) Sanskrit is its additional nouns and adjectives such as  
bhUmigatena rathenAgataH  "he arrived by the subway train" or  
paramANuvisphoTa  "nuclear blast" (I am inventing these) - the Hindi   
"paramANu bam" is funnier. Verbal and pronominal endings do not seem  
to change. Mummies do not change much either.
As for the Census figures of people declaring Sanskrit their mother- 
tongue (or is it not rather father-tongue?) it has to be taken with a  
grain of salt. By the way, nobody has so far
explained to me what happened with the 35,601 Sanskrit speakers who  
vanished between 1991-2001. Maybe they, like the Malayali poet  
Sacchidanandan's dinosaurs "died out
because they spoke Sanskrit"? Who knows?
Rest assured of my devotion to and love for teaching classical  
Sanskrit. And please don't accuse me of necrophilia!
Yours
Stella Sandahl
Professor Stella Sandahl
Department of East Asian Studies
130 St. George St. room 14087
Toronto, ON M5S 3H1
ssandahl at sympatico.ca
stella.sandahl at utoronto.ca
Fax. (416) 978-5711
On 20-Aug-08, at 5:08 AM, Ganesan wrote:
