death of Prof R.M.Sharma and request for contributions to commem.              vol.
Dear Colleagues,
As some of you may already have seen from other sources, Professor Ram  
Murti Sharma, the former VC of Sampurnananda Skt University and a  
Board member of the International Association of Sanskrit Studies,  
died on 14th June.
Recently I received a message from Professor Ram Murti Sharma's son,  
Dr Sunil Sharma, from which I quote:
We are planning a COMMEMORATION VOLUME in his honour.  Through this  
letter, I wud request ... ... <IASS> members to send a paper on any  
theme in Indian and Western Philosophy and Culture including  
Sanskritization or any topic in which they specialize by 30th Nov  
2008.  However, it wud b better if papers have a global perspective as  
his last book, yet to b released, abt which I wud inform, is titled  
VEDANTA-EAST AND WEST.  Doesn't matter, if the paper has been  
pre-presented elsewhere.  We will like to enrich this volume by  
contributions fron IASS members."
In a subsequent message  in which he agreed to my sending this message  
to the list, he amplified his remarks on the them as follows:
"Since, his field was VEDANTA, we will more than welcome papers in  
VEDANTA but at d same time, let it be left to the scholar for greater  
freedom and flexibility. They can send it by 30th Nov,2008 by e-mail  
in MS-Word and/or send d hard copy at the undermentioned address of my  
office. The language can be English/ Sanskrit/ Hindi.However, we wud  
prefer English for a global reach."
Dr Sunil Sharma
Faculty of Management Studies,
University of Delhi,
DELHI-110007.
ssharma at fms.edu
I hope that some of you will be in a position to accede to this  
request (and would be pleased to be informed, if you do so).
With all good wishes
John Brockington
Professor J. L. Brockington
Secretary General, International Association of Sanskrit Studies
Asian Studies
7-8 Buccleuch Place
Edinburgh EH8 9LW
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
