Rajput Maharajas : Conference at Library of Congress Oct. 17
Asian Division of the Library of Congress
Asian Division Friends Society (ADFS)
Johns Hopkins University
School of Advanced International Studies
Present a Conference
"RAJPUT MAHARAJAS"
Friday October 17, 2008
9:00am-3:00pm
The Montpelier Room, 6th Floor, James Madison Building, Library of
Congress
Accompanied by a Book Exhibit
9:00am-3:00pm
Asian Reading Room, LJ-150, Jefferson Building, Library of Congress
Organizer and Moderator:
Dr. Kenneth X. Robbins, Member of the Board of Directors, Asian
Division Friends Society
Patron and Inaugurator of the Conference
His Highness Maharaja Gaj Singh II of Jodhpur
Book Exhibit Curator:
Dr. Allen Thrasher, Coordinator for the South Asia Team, Asian
Division
Co-sponsors:
Rajput Association of North America (RANA)
Joyce and Kenneth X. Robbins
The Tata Group of Companies
Description:
Rajput maharajas have ruled hundreds of places throughout northern
India, not just Rajasthan. The Rathor clan of Rajputs, headed by the
Maharaja of Jodhpur, ruled states in Central India (Alirajpur, Jhabua,
Jobat, Ratlam, Sailana, Sitamau), Eastern States Agency (Seraikela),
Rajasthan (Bikaner, Jodhpur, Kishangarh, Kushalgarh), and Western India
(Idar, Malpur).  The speakers include the son and grand-daughter of the
Maharaja of Dhrangadhra, who heads the Jhala clan of Rajputs. Jhalas
ruled states in Western India (Chuda, Halvad- Dhrangadhra, Limbdi,
Laktar, Limbdi, Sayla, Wadhwan,and Wankaner) and in Rajasthan (Jhalawar)
and were also in Central India. 
The program includes talks dealing with Maharaja Gaj Singh II and
Maharaja Ganga Singh, two of the greatest Rajputs of the 20th century.
The conference will reveal why the romantic image of the Rajputs seduced
both the tourists of today and a British political agent almost 200
years ago. The current controversy over a Bollywood film about a Rajput
princess will be addressed. 
PROGRAM
9:00 a.m.-9:30 a.m. Registration
9:30 a.m.-10:00 a.m. Welcoming Remarks
Dr. Mi Chu, Acting Chief, Asian Division
Maharaja Gaj Singh II of Jodhpur
Dr. Kenneth X. Robbins, Member of the Board of Directors, Asian
Division Friends Society
Janaksinh Jadeja, President, Rajput Association of North America
(RANA)
10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m.
?Maharaja Ganga Singh and the Making of Modern Bikaner and the
World?
Kenneth X. Robbins
Member, Board of Directors, Asian Division Friends Society of the
Library of Congress
10:35 a.m.-11:10 a.m.
?Names and Titles in Story and Image: Making Majesty and Divinity in
the popular imagination?
Jayasinhji Jhala, Professor of Anthropology
Temple University
11:10 a.m.-11:45 a.m.
?The prince?s education: sovereignty, imperialism and nationalism
in royal India?
Angma Jhala, Professor of History
Bentley College
11:45 a.m.-12:10 p.m. Questions and Answers
12:10 p.m.-1:10 p.m. Lunch Break
1:10 p.m.-1:45 p.m.
?Forts, Palaces and Museums: Tourism in Rajasthan?
Barbara Ramusack, Professor of History
University of Cincinnati
1:45 p.m.-2:20 p.m.
?Colonel Tod and Rajasthan?
John McLeod, Professor of History
University of Louisville
2:20 p.m.-2:55 p.m.
?The film Jodhaa Akbar and the real story of Jodha (Jodh Bai), the
Mughal queen from Jodhpur?
Frances Taft 
President, Rajasthan Studies Group
2:55 p.m.-3:15 p.m. Questions and Answers
3:15 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Conclusion and Closing Remarks
3:30 p.m. Tour of Garden & Cosmos: The Royal Paintings of Jodhpur, at
the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, led by curator Debra Diamond
(1050 Independence Ave., SW, Washington, DC. Metro stop: Smithsonian on
the Blue/Orange Line)
