Call for Applications: Professorship in Sanskrit and and Ancient              Cultures of South Asia, Leiden University
Dear Colleagues,
This may be of interest to some members of this list. May I ask you also to
distribute it to anyone whom you think might possibly be interested?
Call for Applications:
Full Professor, Sanskrit and Ancient Cultures of South Asia
Leiden University, The Netherlands
The Faculty of Humanities at Leiden University invites applications for a
full professorship in Sanskrit and Ancient Cultures of South Asia (vacancy
no.  8-194 , starting date 1 September 2009).
This chair is placed within the Leiden Institute for Area Studies within the
Faculty of Humanities, itself comprised of the Institutes for Philosophy,
Religious Studies, Creative and Performing Arts, History, Cultural
Disciplines, Linguistics and Area Studies.
The chair holder will be responsible for teaching and research in the field
of the Ancient Cultures of South Asia and Sanskrit in all its stages, based
on a sound knowledge of Sanskrit and the ancient cultures of South Asia and
focusing on a broad cultural-historical approach to language and culture.
He or she will participate in teaching in the fields of world religions and
Asian Studies (in the broadest sense, encompassing language, literature,
history, art history, social sciences etc.), in a manner which emphasizes
the interrelations of language, linguistics, literature, material culture,
religion and history of Asia through the ages.
The successful candidate will hold a doctorate.  He or she must have
outstanding research qualities manifest in a high-quality, internationally
accessible research and publication record, outstanding educational talents
and teaching experience, and management and administrative skills. He or she
is expected to have a solid knowledge of Sanskrit and both the present and
the past of South Asia; a good command of a modern Indian language will be
an advantage. (If the successful candidate is not Dutch-speaking, he or she
will be expected to acquire a practical working command of Dutch within two
years from taking up duty.)
He or she will play an active role in the School of Asian Studies of the
Institute for Area Studies. The successful candidate will also make a
contribution to attracting, supervising and training young researchers, and
is expected to be willing and able to obtain external funding and to
participate in administration.
Gross salary range: from ? 4904 to ? 7142 per month, depending on
qualifications. Foreign nationals may be eligible for a substantial tax
break.
Review of applications will commence immediately and continue until the
position is filled. Leiden University aims to employ more women in areas
where they are underrepresented. Women are therefore especially invited to
apply.
Applications should be accompanied by a curriculum vitae, a list of
publications and courses taught, an outline of planned research (individual
and/or team projects), and the names and contact details of referees. They
should be addressed to the Dean of Humanities, and cite vacancy no [8-194]
on both letter and envelope (for regular mail) / subject line (for email).
The Dean may also be contacted for inquiries and for recommending potential
candidates.
Prof.dr. H.W. van den Doel
Dean of Humanities
P.O. Box 9515
2300 RA Leiden
The Netherlands
+31 71 527 1628
faculteitsbestuur at hum.leidenuniv.nl
J. Silk
Instituut Kern / Universiteit Leiden
Postbus 9515
2300 RA Leiden
Netherlands
