From ute.huesken at URZ.UNI-HEIDELBERG.DE  Mon Oct  6 11:00:45 2008
From: ute.huesken at URZ.UNI-HEIDELBERG.DE (Ute Huesken)
Date: Mon, 06 Oct 08 13:00:45 +0200
Subject: Associate Professor in Islam Studies, University of Oslo
Message-ID: <161227083595.23782.11967005811861713382.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Associate Professor in Islam Studies
POSITION AS ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR IN ISLAM STUDIES
at the Department of Culture Studies and Oriental Languages (IKOS), is
available from   1st of August 2009.

For further information about research and teaching at the department,
please visit our homepage: http://www.hf.uio.no/ikos/english/.

Applicants must document academic qualifications in disciplines that
employ historical  and / or synchronic perspectives on the study of
Islam. Applicants must also document qualifications within religious
studies pertaining to Islam in the Middle East, South Asia or Europe.
Weight will be given to competence in Arabic and / or other languages of
particular significance to the study of Islam.

The appointee should lead and initiate research, and will be required to
teach, supervise and participate in exams at all levels, and carry out
administrative duties in accordance with the needs of the Department.
Within his/her normal working duties and academic competence, the
appointee may also be obliged to undertake duties outside the
Department. The appointment is subject to any changes in working area or
job description decided by the Faculty of Humanities.

The Department aims to strengthen its research profile in area studies
through the study of religion, culture, language and history. Applicants
are required to outline one or several research projects and show how
these tie on to existing research and scholarly interests at the
Department. The outline should also include themes for possible MA and
PhD theses.

The minimum requirement for the position of Associate professor is a PhD
degree, other corresponding doctoral degree or equivalent academic
qualifications documented by scholarly production. The basis for
assessment will be the scholarly production of the applicant, other
qualifications, pedagogical or educational, the applicant?s
qualifications within leadership and administration as well as general
personal suitability. In ranking the competent applicants, the full
range of qualifications will be considered and explicitly assessed.
Particular weight will be given to the qualifications listed in the
announcement and description of the position.

If no applicant presents the necessary qualifications, a temporary
appointment for a maximum of 3 years might be offered, provided that the
applicant may qualify within the time allowed as stated in section 5(1)
of the Regulations issued pursuant to the Civil Service Act.

Applicants who cannot document basic pedagogical qualifications will be
expected to acquire such within two years.

On the appointment of a candidate who is not fluent in Norwegian,
Swedish or Danish, the appointee will be expected within reasonable time
to learn enough Norwegian to be able to participate actively in all
functions the position may involve.

As a general rule an interview and a trial lecture will be used in the
appointment process.

The University of Oslo has a goal of recruiting more women in academic
positions.
Women are encouraged to apply. The University of Oslo also has a goal of
recruiting more immigrants to Norway in academic positions. Immigrants
are encouraged to apply.

The University of Oslo has an agreement for all employees, aiming to
secure rights to research results a.o.

Please refer to the rules for appointments to associate professorships
at
http://www.uio.no/admhb/reglhb/personal/tilsettingvitenskapelig/rulesappointprofessor.xml.




For further information:
Head of Department, Professor Arne Bugge Amundsen, e-mail:
a.b.amundsen at ikos.uio.no, tel.: +47 22 85 61 61.
Administrative Head of Department Ragnhild Rebne, e-mail:
ragnhild.rebne at ikos.uio.no , Tel.: +47 22 85 59 26.

Pay grade: 57 ? 63 (NOK 416.300,- ? 459.300,- per year) depending on
qualifications/seniority.

Closing date for applications: October 14th 2008

Ref.no: 2008/14079

Submissions:
Applicants must email following material in doc-, rtf- or pdf-format:

-            Letter of application describing qualifications

-     Curriculum vitae

-     A list of published and unpublished work

-     An outline of one or more relevant research projects

Educational certificates, scholarly publications and the like are not to
be submitted with the application, but applicants may be asked to send
in such information or works later.

Please mark the application with reference number and e-mail the
application, CV, list of published and unpublished works and outline of
relevant research projects to jobbsoknad at hf.uio.no.




