Kulikov, Book announcement: Memorial vol. Elizarenkova (fwd)
BOOK ANNOUNCEMENT
Indologica. T. Ya. Elizarenkova Memorial Volume. Pt 1 / Sbornik statej 
pamjati T. Ja. Elizarenkovoj. Kniga 1. (Orientalia et Classica ; 20)
Edited by Leonid Kulikov & Maxim Rusanov
Moscow: Russian State University for the Humanities / Izdatel?stvo RGGU, 
2008. 528 pp. ISBN 978-5-7281-1028-6
PRICE: Euro 35.-  incl. postage
The collection of papers Indologica is dedicated to the memory of Tatjana 
Jakovlevna Elizarenkova, the outstanding Russian indologist and 
Sanskritist, translator of the Rgveda and Atharvaveda, linguist and 
philologist, a renowned expert in the grammar of Vedic and Classical 
Sanskrit, as well as Pali, Hindi and other Indo-Aryan languages. Her works 
represent an important milestone in Indology. Many of those who have 
dedicated themselves to the study of Ancient Indian texts will remember 
her with admiration and gratitude. This volume is a modest homage to her 
memory. The book includes papers written by renowned scholars from Europe, 
USA and Japan, dealing with a wide range of Indological issues ? studies 
in ancient and mediaeval India, linguistics, literature, philosophy, 
religion and culture.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Vyach. Vs. Ivanov (Moscow?Los Angeles). Put' T.Ja. Elizarenkovoj v indologii [T. Ya. Elizarenkova?s Way in Indology]
T. Ya. Elizarenkova: List of Scholarly Works
? V. N. Toporov. Sarasvati ? reka, rech', krasnorechie [Sarasvati: River, Speech, Eloquence]
V. M. Alpatov (Moscow). Ivan Pavlovich Minaev kak jazykoved [Ivan Pavlovich Minayev as a Linguist]
? M. S. Andronov. Iz zametok o tamil'skoj fonetike [Notes on Tamil Phonetics]
H. Bodewitz (Utrecht). The Refrain k?smai dev?ya hav?s? vidhema (RV 10, 121)
H. Falk (Berlin). The Solar Year in the Gavamayana of the Nidanasutra
T. Goto (Sendai). Reisekarren und das Wohnen in der H?tte: ??l?m as im Satapatha-Brahmana
J. C. Heesterman (Leiden). The Epic Paragon of dharma
Vyach. Vs. Ivanov (Moscow?Los Angeles). K issledovaniju pis'mennosti Xarappy [Towards the Study of the Harappan Script]
S. Jamison (Los Angeles). Women?s Language in the Rig Veda?
J. Klein (Athens, Georgia, USA). Adverbial Repetition in the Rigveda
W. Knobl (Kyoto). Conspicuous Absence. A New Case of Intended Metrical Irregularity: The Catalectic Line RV 10.129.7b
A. I. Kogan (Moscow). O statuse i proisxozhdenii zvonkoj pridyxatel'noj serii v rjade dardskix jazykov [On the Status and Origin of Voiced Aspirates in some Dardic Languages]
F. Kortlandt (Leiden). The Origin of the Indo-Iranian Desiderative
T. Krisch (Salzburg). Das neue Rigvedaw?rterbuch RIVELEX und die Bedeutung Tat?jana Elizarenkovas f?r das Projekt
L. I. Kulikov (Leiden). The Vedic Causative samkhy?p?yati / samk??p?yati Reconsidered
R. Lazzeroni (Pisa). Alternanza causativa e classi di presente in vedico: Contributo alla soluzione dell? ?enigma? di Kuiper
N. R. Lidova (Moscow). Car' i zhrec v tradicii Nat'jashastry [King and Priest in the Natya??stra Tradition]
V. P. Liperovsky (Moscow). Vyrazhenie v jazyke xindi kvantitativnoj segmentacii ob?ektov na osnove ix ischislenija v edinicax izmerenija (merax) [Quantitative Segmentation of Objects Based on their Measurement in Units: Evidence from Hindi]
A. Lubotsky (Leiden). The Indo-Iranian Root stig-
Chr. Minkowski (Oxford). Meanings Numerous and Numerical: Nilakantha and Magic Squares in the Rgveda
S. L. Neveleva (St. Petersburg). Epicheskie rishi (po dannym Maxabharaty) [Epic rshis (according to the Mah?bh?rata)]
G.-J. Pinault (Paris). About the Slaying of Soma: Uncovering the Rigvedic Witness
N. I. Prigarina (Moscow). Krasota Jusufa v zerkalax persidskoj poezii i miniatjurnoj zhivopisi [Yusuf?s Beauty in the Mirrors of Persian Poetry and Book Illumination]
V. N. Romanov (Moscow). O meditativnom znachenii glagola upa-?s (k zhanrovoj evoljucii brahmanicheskoj prozy) [On the Meditative Meaning of the Verb upa-?s (towards Genre Evolution of the Brahmanic Prose)]
M. A. Rusanov (Moscow). Nagarjuna i Pa?upata v prakritskom romane ?Lilavai? [Nagarjuna and Pa?upata in the Prakritic Novel Lilavai]
S. D. Serebryany (Moscow). Strofa o ?Bhavad-gite? v ?Narajanii? Meppattura Narajany Bhattatiri (XVI?XVII vv.) [A Strophe Mentioning the Bhagavadg?t? in the Narayaniya by Meppattur Narayana Bhattatiri (16th?17th cc.)]
G. V. Strelkova (Moscow). Vepr' i kotenok. Metafory v romane Hazari Prasada Dvivedi ?Avtobiografija Banabhaty? [The Boar and the Kitten: Metaphors Used in the Autobiography of B?nabhatta by Haz?r? Pras?d Dvived?]
E. Tichy (Freiburg). Mit dem Tag im Bunde: Vedisch jy?k und lateinisch di?, i?gis
A. A. Vigasin (Moscow). ?Velikie? i ?malye? v nadpisjax Ashoki [The ?Great? and the ?Small? in Ashokan Inscriptions]
C. Wright (London). Rgvedic gr?van, ?sri, and ks?p
Send your orders to:  L.Kulikov at hum.LeidenUniv.nl or kulikovli at gmail.com
