scripts and Sanskrit
In the discussion about scripts used for Sanskrit over the last few  
days, the widespread use of Devan?gar? (outside its "native" area)  
well before print seems to have been somewhat overlooked.
S.A. Srinivasan's discussion of contamination has some interesting  
remarks on the relationship between Devan?gar? and other scripts on  
pp.4--5 of his edition of the Tattvakaumud?.
(V?caspatimi?ras Tattvakaumud?. Ein Beitrag zur Textkritik bei  
kontaminierter ?berlieferung.
Srinavasa Ayya Srinivasan. Hamburg, 1967.)
Srinivasan is, as he explains, echoing Sukthankar's prolegomena to the  
?diparvan of the Mah?bh?rata, on p.LXII of which, for instance, we  
may read:
"The Devan?gar? script plays in the Mah?bh?rata textual tradition  
the important r?le of being the commonest medium of the contamination  
of different Mah?bh?rata versions.  A Devan?gar? manuscript of the  
Mah?bh?rata may, in fact, contain practically any version or  
combination of versions."
Geographical location no doubt goes a long way to explain the  
dominance of Devan?gar?.  Presumably centres such as Benares, a  
pilgrimage site and therefore a place at which many texts must have  
been copied by people from many regions, had a role to play.
And long before Devan?gar?, there is evidence of the use, in certain  
contexts, of a North-Indian standard (a proto-N?gar?) well beyond  
North Indian boundaries: digraphic inscriptions (using both a South  
Indian and a North Indian script type) are found on Pallava monuments  
of the early C8th, for instance, and somewhat later in Cambodia.
One wonders, by the way, what centres (and what other factors) created  
the South Indian and South East Asian script-standard of the 5th to  
8th centuries.
As for script-names, these are notoriously uncertain. Is it known when  
the Kashmirian script became known as ??rad? ?  And is there any old  
name at all known for the South Indian script-type so very widely used  
in the 5th to 8th centuries ?  South-East-Asianists today, of course,  
call it "Pallava Grantha"; but presumably this wasn't how it was known  
in C6th Karnataka or C6th Orissa or C6th Cambodia.
Dominic Goodall
Pondicherry Centre,
Ecole fran?aise d'Extr?me-Orient
