Depictions of children in pre-modern Indian art
I have read some of the materials you mention, Asko, and thank you for the
references.  I look forward to digging in.
One thing: Michio Yano has shown (refs. below) that "graha" in the classical
ayurvedic texts almost never refers to planets.  The medical discourse is
about (potentially) malevolent, mostly female, sometimes bird-like, beings.
They have no planetary aspect.
Yano finds only three passages, interestingly all from the Susrutasamhita,
in which "graha" refers to a heavenly body (Su 1.6.19, 1.32.4,
6.39.266cd-267ab, Trikamji's NS 1938 edition).  Yano also analyses the
history of the semantic shift of "graha", saying as you do in "Hind-leg"
that the story begins with an eclipse demon.  But you refer (p.50) to the
"oldest Tamil and Sanskrit texts" as already referring to something
heavenly.  At lest for the ayurveda literature, which you discuss on p.54, I
would say that the grahas are not in any association with the heavens.  Your
characterisation of them as malignant demons is, I think, quite right.  In
your book Deciphering, you discuss the medical texts without actually saying
outright that you think they are talking about planets.  But on p.237b you
say that "there can be little doubt about the identity of Skanda-graha with
the red planet Mars".  To me, there can.  I see nothing in the text itself
that suggests this.  Wider arguments from other contexts may point to
Skanda=Mars, and that may illuminate subterranean connections in the
ayurvedic texts for the comparativist, but the ayurvedic text itself at this
point gives no hint of any planetary connection.
The tradition of manuscript illustration in the medical graha??nti texts
that I have studied, mainly Nepalese MSS of the 15-19 century, also gives no
planetary connection.  Pingree's extraordinary paper (
http://www.jstor.org/pss/751535) on the planetary images found in Wellcome
MS Indic alpha 721, painted in about 1700, traces the literary history of
graha??nti rituals in India to the Vaikhanasa literature of the fourth or
fifth century AD (p.4).  (Incidentally, Pingree also reminds us that
Sphujidhvaja assigns Skanda to be the deva of the planet Mars.)  But the
images in Wellcome MS Indic alpha 721 are not connected with the text of
that MS (Lagnacandrik?), nor are they connected in any way with ayurvedic
medicine.
Best,
Dominik Wujastyk
1. "Calendar, Astrology, and Astronomy", in Gavin Flood (ed.), The Blackwell
Companion to Hinduism, 2003.
2. "Planet Worship in Ancient India" in Hogendijk, J. P.; Plofker, K. &
Yano, M. (eds.) Ketuprak??a: Studies in the History of the Exact Sciences in
Honour of David Pingree, Brill, 2004, 331-48.
2010/1/24 Asko Parpola <asko.parpola at helsinki.fi>
