Well, mzybe not so cool: Sanskrit script?
Where written literary activity is carried on in a single language the script may appear to be dedicated. ?But that is dedication by default and does prove a case. By the time local languages gained prominence in Kashmir Islam and the Arabic script had largely replaced the erstwhile culture. So Sarada could not be so widely used for Kashmiri as, say, ?the Bengali, Oriya or Kannad script for the native language of the region of its prevalence.? The litmus state is if the apparently 'dedicated' script is used when occasion rises to compose in ?a different language. Sarada, perhaps, fails in this test. ?See the Maharthamanjari. The Prakrit version is followed by the Sanskrit. Were not they both written in Sarada? Somebody should be able to tell. The edition I have at hand gives no information about the manuscript.
I also wonder if Somadeva or Kshemendra had read the Baddakaha in a script different from proto-Sarada.
Best for all
DB
Re: Well, mzybe not so cool: Sanskrit script?
? propos "North": Devanagari was not used in Kashmir until it was established under Hindu (Dogra) rule (second half of the nineteenth century). Previously, Sanskrit was written exclusively in (Proto-)Sarada characters. The Pandits, being unaccustomed to it, adopted Nagari only hesitantly and not without reservation.
See the reports of Buehler and Stein;
also Witzel, Kashmiri Manuscripts and Pronunciation; Witzel, The Brahmins if Kashmir.
Best,
WS
Sent: Monday, January 04, 2010 11:13 PM
Re: Well, mzybe not so cool: Sanskrit script?
Prof. Dr. Walter Slaje
Hermann-L?ns-Str. 1
D-99425 Weimar
(Germany)
www.indologie.uni-halle.de
Ego ex animi mei sententia spondeo ac polliceor
studia humanitatis impigro labore culturum et provecturum
non sordidi lucri causa nec ad vanam captandam gloriam,
sed quo magis veritas propagetur et lux eius, qua salus
humani generis continetur, clarius effulgeat.
Vindobonae, die XXI. mensis Novembris MCMLXXXIII. 
      The INTERNET now has a personality. YOURS! See your Yahoo! Homepage. http://in.yahoo.com/
