Moksa/Nirvana
I agree with Viktoria, and also I would? add that nirvana, meaning of blowing out? (the movements
of the mind)?? has a more psychological
connotation? as it seems to be the? context of Buddhism itself. By the other hand,? moksa acquires a more ontological
sense. This
corresponds
to the unveiling, revelation of the self (atman / brahman) in? the
fourth state of? conscience, advaita, non dual,? proper of the Vedanta.
I think that the difference if there is such, lies in the basic
perspective of Buddhism and Ved?nta.? An old,? but still very necessary work,? to observe these nuances is? Karmarkar on Gaudapada K?rik?.
Olivia Cattedra
CONICET
De: Viktoria Lyssenko <vglyssenko at YANDEX.RU>
Asunto: Re: Moksa/Nirvana
Para: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Fecha: lunes, 22 de marzo de 2010, 4:01
Dear Mary,
In my opinion, the meanings of the both largerly overlap in signifying the release from samsara, and in no way the belief in soul/no soul does determine the difference between them as the word nirvana was used not only in Buddhism but in other traditions, like Jainism and Ajivika, especially during the sramana period. The term moksha may seem? more litteral (moksha from the root muc - to let loose) while nirvana more metaphorical (nirvana means "blowing out [the fire of passions]"), but, in the final analysis, both are metaphorical as their sense is quite different from that in the ordinary usus (vyavahara). Still there is a difference in nuances: nirvana puts to the fore the state of overcoming the affects (klesha, nivarana, avarana) and the tranquil state of mind which is rather associated with the absence of suffering then with the state of bliss (ananda), while moksha underlines the release from the burden of samsara as such which does not determine
 the character of this state - it may be either bliss (ananda) as in the majority of schools or absence of sufferings as in Vaisheshika .
Victoria Lysenko
Russian Academy of sciences
22.03.10, 10:58, "Mary Storm" <mnstorm at MAC.COM>:
????? ????? ??? http://mail.yandex.ru/nospam/sign
      Yahoo! Cocina
Encontra las mejores recetas con Yahoo! Cocina.
http://ar.mujer.yahoo.com/cocina/
