A misconception regarding the PDF format (Re: Text processing in              Unicode
Dear S. Palaniappan,
I don't  think it is really appropriate
for you to begin to export to this Indological forum
the violent infighting which exists inside the Tamil community,
in which a minority strongly opposes the use of Unicode,
and wants to promote an ad hoc encoding,
in the Private User Area,
which will bring the Tamil Communicity back to the Stone Age of 
Pre-Unicode days.
Why do you not limit your search to HTML encoded pages?
The PDF format was not primarily invented for being a text storage format
and it has never been guaranteed that round-trip conversions is always 
possible
between PDF files and text files.
PDF files are "E-paper".
You might as well ask for the possibility of having round-trip conversions
between .DVI files and text files.
The reason why many pages on Tamil government sites
clumsily use PDF rather than HTML
is that a powerful lobby has been preventing rational behaviour,
sometimes claiming that the Unicode consortium
does not recognize the linguistic specificities of "Dravidian"
and sometimes acccusing the Unicode Consortium
of being the new "East India Company"
  :-(
The fact that pasting from a PDF file to a plain text file does not 
routinely work
can certainly NOT be described as a "major" defect of Unicode,
as some uninformed people have kept repeating
(and as a reason for the Tamil government not to use Unicode)
Sorry for being so blunt in my statements
but I have seen for several months
hundreds of misleading paranoid statements
in several Tamil mailing lists
against Unicode,
repeated AD NAUSEAM
and the idea that this is all going to start here in this academic list
is very unpleasant to say the least.
That Unicode has been invented is certainly a MIRACLE,
which could not be predicted 30 years ago.
If the Tamil communicity wanted to use their political clout in a useful 
way,
they could lobby for the grantha script to be quickly implemented inside 
the Unicode standard,
in order to make the miracle even more of a miracle.
That would allow for the easy reprint of all the Vaishnava Manipravalam 
commentaries.
That would be useful indeed.
Have a nice day!
Le 3/26/2010 4:11 AM, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan a ?crit :
