aratni
My calculation for aratni tries to objectify what is given as a relational measurement in the Sulvasutras. The problem is the one Patrick had: If, for example, we take a'ngula/i as "the thumb's breadth" or "Daumenbreite" and mearure it with approx. 1.905 cm (thus A.K. Bag, The Knowledge of geometrical figures; G. Pillai, The Way of the Silpis, J. Eggeling, SB III, S. 309, et al.), and if we then apply the relational measurements of the Sulvasutras, we get too large measurements: a purusa would be 228 cm; which would be too much even if we consider that this means a man with streched arms. Given the fact that the average male body height in India is c. 167 cm (see Karve Anthropometric Measurements of the Marathas, p. 17), this measurement cannot be realistic. 
The other problem is that in the sacrificial context the measurements are related to the yajamAna, i.e. not standardised. In MAnSulvS 1.4.1, however, it is asked what one should do if the yajamAna is crippled. Then follow standardisations according to botanical criteria, i.e. a.nu, tila, yava etc. If we take these as the standard, we approx. get the measurement I had calculated for aratni.
All this is based on research that I made 30 years ago; perhaps there are better solutions to this problem.
Best,
Axel Michaels
P please don't print this e-mail unless you really need to.
Von: Jean-Michel Delire <jmdelire at ULB.AC.BE>
An: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Gesendet: Mittwoch, den 26. Mai 2010, 16:17:46 Uhr
Betreff: Re: [INDOLOGY] AW: [INDOLOGY] aratni
Dear Patrick,
I don't think this botanical explanation by Pr. Michaels is appropriate. Georg Thibaut, who was the first to edit the Baudh.'Sulb., expressed the view that the very peculiar value of 34 tila for an a'ngula is related to the existence of an approximate value to the square root of 2 (Baudh 'Sulb. I.61) which uses the 34th part of an a'ngula (JASB, vol.44, 1875, p.227). In a recent article (Centaurus, vol.47, 2005, p.60), I also showed that the value of 14 a.nu for an a'ngula is related to the unattested approximate value of 7 + 1/14 to the diagonal of a square of side 5 and to the attested common and gross procedure for transforming a circle into a square (Baudh.'Sulb.I.60 for instance).
Best regards,
Jean Michel Delire
