Fw: Re: [INDOLOGY] Help with keyboard
Dear Friends,
In continuation of the?previous mail cited below?I must state with apology that my assessment of Windows 7 was not fully correct. One can install old programmes like Turbo C, QBasic and iLEAP and work as with XP. The only difference is that the installation process is not automatic. It was done after some efforts. However, I am not yet successful with 'chkdsk/f' and a few other facilities. Hope it will be possible to?install those too
Best
DB?
Re: [INDOLOGY] Help with keyboard
Dear Colleagues,
Baraha worked with my Windows 7. iLEAP did not work. But it accepted a new non-unicode inscript processor similar to iLEAP. But otherwise my experience with Windows 7 has not been happy. It does not accept the old DOS based conventional programming languages. 
I do not know if I have read it correctly but It seems that Windows aims at keeping its users? more and more dependent on it by withdrawing the opportunities of independent programming. My vendor advised me to instal the new?Windows based?Visual Basic Studio (Visual Studio 2008)to do programming as one formerly did with TC or QB. The Acrobat writer began to function only after that. It has some user friendly packages. That may be useful for commercial users. And, apparently, things are better.?But, perhaps, freedom is curtailed.? For me it?may take time to get used to the new set up.?To make things as good as with the previous version, it seems advisable to keep a Windows?XP ready.? However since I am no expert more knowledgeable colleagues may kindly comment.
Best for all
DB?
Re: [INDOLOGY] Help with keyboard
I am a big fan of Baraha.? When I first made the shift to Windows 7, Baraha produced the infamous boxes, etc.? However, I think I caused the problem by changing the settings in the "Region and Language" area of the control panel (something that I think was required in XP, but apparently not in Windows 7).? I set everything back to default, and Baraha started to work. Incidentally, I use Baraha Direct, and type directly into Word 2007.
I realize Windows and Word are for those of us trapped in this world of nescience, but they do have great utility, and I find that with them (and Baraha) I am able to easily produce serviceable devanagari.
Herman Tull
Princeton, NJ
Sent: Monday, May 17, 2010 4:54 PM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Help with keyboard
