Graduiertenkolleg Stipendien
Re: FW: Graduiertenkolleg Stipendien
*Doctoral scholarships*
*Graduate college "Religious Non-conformism and Cultural Dynamics"
University of Leipzig*
Deadline: 18 July 2010
The graduate college "Religious Non-conformism and Cultural Dynamics" will
award
5 doctoral scholarships for a period of maximum three years, beginning on 1
October 2010.
The college conducts research on religious non-conformism in various
regional and temporal contexts. The
central thesis is that religious non-conformism is an essential element of
the religious field and a potential resource
of alternative meaning and orientation, constituting an element of cultural
tension and dynamics. The
project is arranged along three lines of interest:
(1) The tension between religious non-conformism and conformity, i.e. the
dominant forms of (religious)
orientations and ways of life.
(2) The innovative potential and the transforming dynamics of religious
non-conformism.
(3) The social structure, the interconnectedness, and the societal position
of nonconformist groups and milieus.
The college places the study of religious non-conformism in an
interdisciplinary and comparative context. The
fields of research include Study of Religions, Sociology of Religion,
African Studies, Old Testament / Ancient
Near Eastern Studies, Arabic / Islamic Studies, History, Indology, Jewish
Studies, Church History, Tibetology,
East Asian Religions.
We are looking for candidates from within and outside Germany with an
above-average degree. Their dissertation
project must deal with religious non-conformism in one of the fields named
above. The languages of the
college will be German and English. Candidates with insufficient German
whose projects are chosen for the
college can in addition obtain a scholarship for linguistic training.
Applicants will normally be no older than 28. (But time spent rearing
children, as well as national service etc.
may be taken into account.) Those given a scholarship must undertake to live
in Leipzig.
The University of Leipzig aims to raise the proportion of women and
therefore calls upon women to apply.
Handicapped people with equal qualifications will be given preference.
Applications (in German or English) should include:
- a covering letter
- a curriculum vitae and copies of certificates
- a list of publications (if any)
- a letter from an academic referee
- a description of the research project, max. 10 pages, with time plan
- a specimen of written work (e.g. Master's thesis).
Please send these in electronic form (as pdf files) to:
nonkonformismus at uni-leipzig.de
Graduiertenkolleg ?Religi?ser Nonkonformismus und kulturelle Dynamik?
Klostergasse 3
D-04109 Leipzig
Further information:
www.uni-leipzig.de/ral/nonkonformismus<https://freemailng0801.web.de/jump.htm?goto=www.uni-leipzig.de%2Fral%2Fnonkonformismus>
