4th International Symposium on Social Sciences,              Globalization and Cultures of Resistance
Euro-American International University, Global
Ethic Foundati
Euro-American International University, Global
Ethic Foundation and Vedic Friends Association call educational
institutions, civic and religious associations, NGOs , reseracher scholars and the
general public to participate from 25-27 August 2010 in the? Iberoamerican
Technological Institute of
Aragon Valley in Metropolitan area of Mexico City: 
4th International Symposium on Social
Sciences, Globalization and Cultures of Resistance 
http://redinvestigareligionmexico.blogspot.com/2010/05/4-simposium-internacional-de-ciencias.html
http://espanol.groups.yahoo.com/group/Asociacion-Vedica/
http://espanol.groups.yahoo.com/group/Hinduismo-Estudios-de-Religiones/
???????????????
Masterful Lectures
The War again Hunger and illiteracy in the?Indian
world today. 
Dr. Jesus Santos aka? Director
of Euro-American International University in Spain
and Dharma Foundation President. Medal Winner at Sacrifice for? Comite
Iberoamericano de Educaci?n. 
? 
Amor Fati: a thought for a globalized world 
?
Prfr. Gerardo
Martinez Cristerna. President of the Global Ethic
Foundation in Mexico. 
The abortion debate 
Dr.
Howard J. Resnick. Harvard University
and professor at the University of Florida 
The risks to Earth Global Warming 
Lic. Oscar G. Bojorquez U 
The importance of ethics in professional education 
MSc. Juan
Jos? Ba?os. UNAM, Director of the Latin American Technological
Institute of Aragon Valley. 
Roundtable
Pedophilia. Psycho-social endemic Dr. Mauseng Catalan. Cambodia
Peking University and University of Mental Health
Sciences 
Commentators
Ethical and moral aspect. Dr.
Rodolfo Villareal International University Euroamericana and Sacrifice Award
Winner for Education Latin American Council of Education. 
Dr. Kesava Swami. Euro-American International
University. 
Legal and Criminological Appearance: Dr. Jesus Santos Director of the International University Euroamericana. 
Book presentation 
Eye of Hurricane. ( A modenr Puranic Saga) by Dr. Jesus Santos University Foundation Euroamericana
and Dharma. Medal Winner at Sacrifice for Education School Board
Iberoamericano. 
Commenters
MSc. Jaime Torres Mendoza professor at the Faculty of Arts of the
AU to C. 
MA. Francisco
Horacio Juarez Arganis BA in Spanish Literature of the AU of C professor at the UIE. 
Worktables 
1) Global Warming Risks for Humanity and the planet. 
2) The activism of the ancient cultures and 
globaliphobic fundamentalism. 
???? 
3) The phenomena of cultural genocide by the expansion of globalizing
business empires. 
4) The importance of dialogue and negotiation and
cooperation between religious associations and control of unfair campaigning. 
?? 
5) The social role of the missions of all religions, in
the process of extinction of local cultures of Latin
America, Europe, Africa and Asia. 
? 
6) The Relevance of the preservation of local and ancestral cultures before globalization. 
7) Bureau of miscellaneous items 
The papers should send Office Word format. Arial 12, 8 pages
maximum, before Agoust 10 for review and approval. For
those accepted will be published in the Journal of Philosophical Studies
Institute : Critica The fee is $200.00 mexican pesos for speakers and
registered attendees, entitled to Diploma and memories. Listeners are
free. 
Cultural events. There
will be put to display the works and books that bring speakers and exponents. Delivery
of Diplomas and Closing. Snack Break 
Reports h.arganisjuarez @ yahoo.com.mx, 844 417 87 52
?
?
Lic. M.A. Horacio Francisco Arganis Ju?rez
Catedr?tico Investigador de la Universidad
Internacional Euroamericana.
Departamento de Filosof?a y Religi?n Comparada.
Miembro del Instituto de Estudios Filos?ficos de Saltillo A. C.
www.uie.edu.es
Lic. M.A. Horacio Francisco Arganis Ju?rez
Catedr?tico Investigador de la Universidad
Internacional Euroamericana.
Departamento de Filosof?a y Religi?n Comparada.
Miembro del Instituto de Estudios Filos?ficos de Saltillo A. C.
www.uie.edu.es
