Job Posting: Senior Research Associate and Director
Forwarded message:
Sent: 07 July 2010 16:43
Greetings,
The South Asia Language Resource Center (SALRC) would like to request
that the attached announcement be considered for dissemination to the
Indology list.  This is a job posting for the position of Director of
the SALRC.  If you deem it is appropriate to have this message sent, we
must ask, in accordance with our university's HR policies, that the
posting be sent exactly as written in the attached document (no edits).
Thank you very much for your time and consideration.  Please feel free
to contact me with any questions.
Sincerely yours,
Antoinette Klimek
Grants and Program Coordinator, SALRC
salrc at uchicago.edu
  *Senior Research Associate and Director*
The Executive Committee of the South Asia Language Resource Center is
seeking to hire a Senior Research Associate/Director. The Director is
responsible for ensuring the effective operation of SALRC, one of fifteen
Language Resource Centers nationwide funded by the U.S. Department of
Education. Along with its sister centers, this Center exists to improve the
capacity to teach and learn foreign languages effectively. The Director is
charged with program planning and execution, policy making, fund raising,
grants administration, office management, and staff supervision. The
position involves the exercise of independent judgment and requires a
mature, experienced academic administrator to competently manage the
multiple responsibilities associated with the position. Candidates should
hold a Master's or higher degree and be familiar with a modern South Asian
language. Preference will be given to candidates with a thorough academic
knowledge of South Asian studies and with a Ph.D. degree. Candidates should
possess proven organizational abilities and experience in similar
large-scale, complex programs as well as excellent intellectual,
administrative, and human relations skills. Effective oral and written
communication skills and computer literacy are essential. Candidates must
demonstrate the ability to conceptualize and implement major initiatives
such as program planning and preparation of grant proposals. The ability to
lead in a manner conducive to positive morale in a large, collaborative
program is also important. Proficiency in South Asian linguistics or
language pedagogy and grant writing experience is highly desirable. The
position is either a half-time or full-time appointment contingent upon
renewed external funding for SALRC.
Applicants must upload a cover letter, CV, and names of three references to
the University?s academic website: https://academiccareers.uchicago.edu.
Paper copies must also be sent to:
SALRC Search The Department of South Asian Languages & Civilizations
The University of Chicago 1130 East 59th Street  Foster Hall, Room 212 Chicago,
IL USA 60637-1539 E-mail: salrc at uchicago.edu
For full consideration all electronic uploads and paper copies must be
received by August 1, 2010.
