Hiragana and Indic Scripts
Dear all,
A very learned colleague of mine, to whom I forwarded the discussion  
about the Hiragana etc. scripts, sent me the following which he has  
allowed me to forward to the Indology list. However, the list  
rejected the attachment which were the entries in Prof. Waterhouse's  
forthcoming book. I am sure he'll answer you directly if you contact  
him off list. His e-mail is: david. waterhouse at utoronto.ca.
Dear Stella,
Thank you for these notes: but they are a little confused. I am  
attaching short historical notes on hiragana and katakana from the  
Glossary appended to my forthcoming catalogue of prints by Suzuki  
Harunobu (1725?-70) in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Both kinds of  
kana derive from Chinese characters; the connexion with K?kai can be  
dismissed. I do not know when the present arrangement of kana first  
came into use; but until the Meiji period the most common arrangement  
was according to the iroha order: which constitutes a rather silly  
poem using all the syllables once. Older reference books follow this  
order.
K?kai studied an advanced form of Buddhist Tantrism in China, and  
introduced it to Japan for his Shingon school of Japanese Buddhism.  
In various of its rituals Shingon uses the siddham (Jap. shittan)  
script, which derives not from devanagari but from an older form of  
Gupta script. I have several reference books about it. One often sees  
it in the inscriptions in Japanese graveyards; and Shingon monks have  
to study it. Unlike Indic scripts, it is written with a brush, which  
gives it a more cursive character than devanagari. Its early history  
in Japan is unclear, but its introduction may go back to the time of  
K?kai (774-835), Saich? (767-822: founder of the Tendai school) or  
Ennin (794-864: third head of Tendai), all of whom studied in China.
Lastly, I do not see any connexion between kana and musical notation,  
except that kana themselves are used as a kind of solfa notation, and  
various other kinds of Chinese and Japanese music notation show the  
influence of Chinese characters: notably the classical notation for  
the qin (7-stringed zither).
As you may know, the Korean syllabary, a brilliant invention of 15th- 
century Korean linguists, was directly influenced by Sanskrit  
phonology, as well as by Chinese; and the shapes of individual  
letters mirror the position of the tongue.
Yours ever,
David
Stella Sandahl
ssandahl at sympatico.ca
On 10-Aug-10, at 5:33 AM, Dan Lusthaus wrote:
