Fwd: [INDOLOGY] Are diacritics NOW irrelevant ? (Re:              [INDOLOGY] the koti
Chrisomalis says,
Although I disagree with his conclusions in many places, I thank Georges
A browse through the book shows that Chrisomalis cites Ifrah pervasively as
a standard source, only criticising him explicitly on a few occasions.
I very much like Chrisomalis' opening criticism aimed at those who praise
our current internationalized counting system as being in some sense a
pinnacle of achievement.  Chrisomalis argues that it is possible to imagine
other counting systems that would serve us just as well, if not better.
 I have made more or less the same point myself in the past.
I find it quite odd that Chrisomalis doesn't mention Pingree anywhere in his
book or bibliography.  Perhaps it's true that David didn't write much about
numerical notation as such, but his studies on cultural contacts and the
chronology of communication amongst ancient and medieval mathematicians are
fundamental, including his work on Arab-Indian contacts, and I would have
expected to see at least an *awareness* of his oevre.  Pingree's CESS
and *Astral
Literature* are fundamental reference works, even for well-known figures
like Brahmagupta or ?ryabha?a, and especially for getting the chronology
right.  Chrisomalis refers to Sphujidhvaja's *Yavanajataka* on p.195, but
via Yano and without reference to Pingree's critical edition and study of
the work.  Kim Plofker is cited, though not her new book (which only came
out a year before Chrisomalis').  By contrast, Kaye's 1907 and 1919 terribly
biassed articles are taken seriously.  More seriously, there is no mention
anywhere of the Bakhshali manuscript, of Hayashi's 1995 edition of it, and
his important argument that it provides us the first written zero in India
(Chrisomalis still refers to the Gwalior inscription, p.213).  Chrisomalis
doesn't mention Brahmagupta, the first South Asian mathematician actually to
discuss zero in theoretical terms.  And he follows Datta and Singh (1935) in
placing Panini in the seventh century BC (p.205).  In fact, he cites a lot
of secondary sources from before the war, and few from the last two decades.
Finally, [Jean-Luc] I'm sorry to have to say that Chrisomalis is no better
at getting his diacritical marks right than Ifrah.  They are a mixture of
erratic, wrong, and obsolete.  So, "ka?apay?di" is "katapayadi" which
undermines the very point of ?ryabha?a's ("?ryabhata"'s) achievement.  He
says,
The name katapay?di [sic] itself is taken from the four syllables (ka, ta
[sic], pa, ya)
that are assigned the value 1 in this system. (p.209)
But in his chart of the ka?apay?di scheme on the next page, the
transliteration is correct.
At the same time Chrisomalis and his editors have put a huge amount of
effort into getting the Asian scripts right.  I haven't found a mistake yet
in the N?gar?, though I haven't looked systematically or comprehensively.
When he can make a good effort for the Asian scripts, it's hard to
understand the lack of care over the material in Latin script, that is in
principle so much easier to handle.  Chrisomalis' difficulties with
transliteration are somewhat ironic in a book about notation.
There's no question that this book is a major contribution (as is the money
need to buy it), but I think it's South Asia chapter has to be read together
with Ifrah, not instead of.   And the poor spelling (which is what wrong
diacritics are), coupled with the absence of reference to important,
relevant work of the last 15 years, especially by Hayashi, means that
unfortunately it still cannot, in my view, be considered a definitive
work.   Like Ifrah, it is extremely interesting, and worth reading (if your
interests lie in this direction).
Best,
Dominik
On 30 November 2010 23:38, Dominik Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com> wrote:
