From Vincent.Eltschinger at oeaw.ac.at  Mon Sep 25 14:56:16 2023
From: Vincent.Eltschinger at oeaw.ac.at (Eltschinger, Vincent)
Date: Mon, 25 Sep 2023 14:56:16 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Publication announcement
Message-ID: <d8146ad82f7e4c1882ebd8e2cfa83d3b@oeaw.ac.at>

Dear colleagues,
It is our great pleasure to announce the publication of the following two volumes of homage to our friend and colleague the late, and much missed, Helmut Krasser (1956-2014) :

Vincent Eltschinger, Jowita Kramer, Parimal Patil, Chizuko Yoshimizu (eds.): Burlesque of the Philosophers. Indian and Buddhist Studies in Memory of Helmut Krasser, 2 vols., 918 pp., Hamburg, Numata Center for Buddhist Studies (Hamburg Buddhist Studies 19).

For details, see the forthcoming announcement at:
https://www.buddhismuskunde.uni-hamburg.de/en/publikationen/hamburg-buddhist-studies.html


Contents

Part I

Forewordxiii

Michael Zimmermann / Steffen D?ll

Preface and Acknowledgments xv

Helmut Krasser xvii

Vincent Eltschinger

Publications of Helmut Krasser xxxv

A study on an unknown and unusual commentary on the Vini?cayasa?graha??, by Jinkyoung Choi, p. 1

A Buddhist refutation of the existence of a creator God: ?ubhagupta?s ??varabha?gak?rik?, by Vincent Eltschinger & Isabelle Rati?, p. 29

Reconsidering the phrase na kvacit prati??hita? cittam utp?dayitavyam in the Vajracchedik?, with special reference to the Chinese translations, by Toru Funayama, p. 73

Anthologizing the Great Way: Remarks on the S?trasamuccaya attributed to N?g?rjuna and its congeners, by Paul Harrison, p. 89

One or many? The commentaries on the Bhadracary?pra?idh?na, by Jens-Uwe Hartmann, p. 129

Who is the proponent of Candrak?rti portrayed by Phya pa Chos kyi seng ge in the sNying po?, by Pascale Hugon, p. 153

A further folio from ??kyabuddhi?s Pram??av?rttika??k? ad II.119?135, G?ttingen Collection Xc 14/57, by Kazuo Kano, p. 201

Three controversies concerning aggregation (sa?gh?ta/sam?ha) in the Abhidharmako?abh??ya, by Kyo Kano, p. 231

Is God just like a potter? The logical fallacy vi?e?aviruddhatva in a proof for the existence of God, by Kei Kataoka, p. 271

The Dharmak?rtian path to liberation, by Shoryu Katsura, p. 291

Worms in Saddharmasm?tyupasth?nas?tra, by Robert Kritzer, p. 309

Notes on J??na?r?mitra?s Bhed?bhedapar?k??, by Taiken Kyuma, p. 349

Mandalas intertwined: Why minor goddesses in the Tabo Main Temple matter, by Christian Luczanits, p. 363

?Gos Lo ts? ba gZhon nu dpal?s momentariness of unconditioned buddhahood, by Klaus-Dieter Mathes, p. 395

Perceived but not known: g?h?tagraha?a and Praj??karagupta?s criticism of Dharmottara, by Patrick McAllister, p. 411

Praj??karagupta on sattvam upalabdhir eva or an Indian version of ?esse est percipi? , by Shinya Moriyama, p. 447

Part II

A fragmentary manuscript of Dharmottara?s K?a?abha?gasiddhi, by Yasutaka Muroya, p. 471

An attempt to reconstruct the Sanskrit of the verses in the Ny?yamukha?s j?ti section, by Motoi Ono, p. 505

On the history of branding (t?pa) in the tradition of P??car?tra, by Marion Rastelli, p. 529

Apology for omniscience: An eighth-century demonstration of the Buddha?s sarvajn?atva Margherita, by Serena Saccone, p. 571

On the problem of identity between vin??a and bh?va in the Buddhist theory of momentariness: The view of Dharmottara and Praj??karagupta, by Masamichi Sakai

Materials for the study of the Pudgalav?da and its 625 criticism: Critical edition and English translation of the V?ts?putr?yaparikalpit?tmapar?k??, by Francesco Sferra, p. 595

Digesting Dharmak?rti: Two notes, by P?ter-D?niel Sz?nt?, p. 679

Dign?ga and Kum?rila on apoha and the hierarchy of concepts, by John Taber, p. 693

Chinese whispers? Transmitting, transferring and translating Buddhist literature, by Helmut Tauscher, p. 719

Beauty, by Raffaele Torella, p. 755

Inscription 2 in the entrance area of the Lha khang chen mo at ?Khor chags Monastery: Edition and annotated translation, by Kurt Tropper, p. 781

Bh?viveka, Dharmap?la and Dharmak?rti and their criticism of a S??khya theory, by Toshikazu Watanabe, p. 797

Reconsidering the characterization of the Bhagavant Buddha as pram??abh?ta by Dign?ga in the ?rambha?loka of his Pram??asamuccaya: An overweening Indologist?s attempt to intrude into hereditary Buddhological territory, by Albrecht Wezler ? , p. 819

The negation of arising from other in the M?lamadhyamakak?rik? and beyond, by Chizuko Yoshimizu, p. 861

Differences in the exegetic attitude to scriptures between M?m??s? and Ved?nta, by Kiyotaka Yoshimizu, p. 895


Helmut Krasser, despite tragically passing away much too early in 2014, left his mark on more than one generation of scholars of Indian and Buddhist philosophy. An eminent specialist on the so-called ?logico-epistemological tradition,? he devoted his Viennese dissertation and early work to the Buddhist philosopher Dharmottara, before broadening the scope of his research to Dign?ga and Dharmak?rti, the tradition?s historical founders. In particular, he examined their ideas on the relationship between logic and soteriology. He also considered the very nature of their texts. Should they be understood as authored philosophical works? Or rather as edited lecture notes of students? Director from 2007 to 2014 of the Institute for the Cultural and Intellectual History of Asia at the Austrian Academy of Sciences, Helmut Krasser left behind a multi-faceted body of work, including editions of ancient Sanskrit manuscripts today found in the Tibetan Autonomous Region that had never before been published. This commemorative volume with more than thirty contributions not only reflects the multiplicity of his interests, it is also evidence of the deep impression he left on all those who met him. It is a document to the faithful friendship and highest respect still held by his friends and colleagues almost ten years after his death.

Vincent Eltschinger, and the editors



Vincent Eltschinger
Directeur d'?tudes
?cole Pratique des Hautes ?tudes, Section des sciences religieuses
Korrespondierendes Mitglied der ?AW
Patios Saint-Jacques, 4-14 rue Ferrus - 75014 Paris
vincent.eltschinger at ephe.sorbonne.fr
0033 1 56 61 17 34 / 0033 7 85 86 84 05
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20230925/f02e5e50/attachment.htm>

