From franco at uni-leipzig.de  Fri Sep 22 08:54:26 2023
From: franco at uni-leipzig.de (Eli Franco)
Date: Fri, 22 Sep 2023 10:54:26 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] German Indology and National Socialism
In-Reply-To: <CAJGj9eYujjsMqFymKZJFEXZxVQ5uB3p4T_8JrHe+d=MiZ5KBuw@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <20230922105426.Horde.EkOLWTmapJESQSAIiiWozdA@mail.uni-leipzig.de>



Dear list members,

I would like to draw your attention to a special issue of
NTM Zeitschrift f?r Geschichte der Wissenschaften, Technik und Medizin/
NTM Journal of the History of Science, Technology and Medicine
on German Indology and National Socialism, which contains the  
following articles:

Moritz Epple, Maria Framke, Eli Franco, Horst Junginger, and  
Baijayanti Roy, Where do we Stand in the Historiography of Small  
Disciplines in Nazi Germany? The Case of Indology

Same authors, Introduction: Indology and Aryanism: Knowledge of India  
in Nazi Germany?An Invitation for New Research
Maria Framke, Manoeuvring Across Academia in National Socialist  
Germany: The Life and Work of Devendra Nath Bannerjea

Eli Franco, ?There is No Reliable Evidence to Pass Moral Judgment on  
Frauwallner.?
Erich Frauwallner, Jakob Stuchlik, Walter Slaje, and the Whitewashing  
of Austrian Indology During the Time of National Socialism
(I wish to take this opportunity to modify my final statement by  
referring to Axel Michaels, ?Sheldon Pollock and German Indology.? In:  
Hans Harder and Dhruv Raina (eds.), Disciplines and Movements.  
Conversations between India and the German-speaking World. Hyderabad:  
Orient BlackSwan, 85-104.)

Baijayanti Roy, Knowledge of India as an Instrument of Nazi Politics:  
Ludwig Alsdorf, German Indology and Indian Anti-Colonialism

Isabella Schwaderer, ?Exotic Sensation? or ?V?lkisch Art?? Press  
Reviews of the Indisches Ballett Menaka (Menaka Indian Ballet) on Tour  
Through Germany, 1936?1938

All articles have Open Access and can be downloaded in
https://link.springer.com/journal/48/online-first

Best wishes and Shanah Tovah,
Eli

-- 
Prof. Dr. Eli Franco
Hegergasse 8/15
Wien 1030
Austria



