From abbas at BETA.IOPB.STPBH.SOFT.NET  Fri Jan  8 19:02:37 1999
From: abbas at BETA.IOPB.STPBH.SOFT.NET (Samar Abbas)
Date: Fri, 08 Jan 99 14:02:37 -0500
Subject: FW: Deepa Mehta's _Fire_
In-Reply-To: <01BE3A63.B201FA80.achandra@wnmail.att.com>
Message-ID: <161227044737.23782.17060985280976090954.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

On Thu, 7 Jan 1999, Ashish Chandra wrote:
> Lord Siva, a Dravidian God according
> to you

There are `2 Sivas'. One Dravidian, one Tibetic. The North Indian Shiva
and Kashmir Shaivism is obviously of Tibetic origin (cf. his white skin),
while the South Indian Siva is obviously of Dravidian origin. Indeed,
Tantrism is evidently of Tibetic rrigin.

> An excellent commentary offering insight into what will happen when the
> Kashi Viswanath Temple (dedicated to Lord Siva, a Dravidian God according
> to you) comes up for liberation.

 I have a hunch that they will not attempt to `liberate' this Siva temple.
The Sangh Parivar is dominated by Orthodox Vaishnavites. They have, I feel
used this to gain Shaivite (Dravidian and Kashmir/Tibetic) and Smarta
pantheist support. The Smartas are dominant in Kerala only (the home of
Shankaracharya) which is now not a BJP bastion anyway.  The Kashmir
Shaivite and Tantro-Tibetan votebank is negligible and they have not got
the support of the Dravidian Shaivites.  The Smartas are also negligible.
Instead, they will `liberate' (or attempt to) Krishnajanmabhoomi, Orthodox
Vaishnavites that they are. Keep an eye on things. My prediction.


> Also, and curiously so,  Thakurs (Rajputs
> a.k.a Hunnites according to you, described by you earlier as Thukarians)
> are present at the top of the hierarchy of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh.
> The rest of the garbage need not be commented on.

The Rajputs comprise different races, incl. Tokharians (ie. Thakurs),
Hunns (ie. Hoons), Avars (ie. Abhiras) etc. etc. As long as the RSS
supports their Solar Rellgions, they will support RSS. One must realize
that Vishnu was also later on associated with the Sun to incorporate these
Solar cults, and a certain degree of incorporation has gone on. But this
is superficial, one only has to see the lack of guilt with which Rajputs
slaughtered Brahmins during the Delhi Era, and the support the former gave
to the Islamic Empire against the latter (since both Muslims and Rajputs
were `foreigners'. But Kshatriyas (not to be confused with Rajputs) revere
Brahmins, and elsewhere collaborated against the Islamic invader.




