From vishalagarwal at HOTMAIL.COM  Mon Jun 14 00:57:18 1999
From: vishalagarwal at HOTMAIL.COM (Vishal Agarwal)
Date: Sun, 13 Jun 99 17:57:18 -0700
Subject: !Re: Sri Aurobindo
Message-ID: <161227050449.23782.5471958507963666825.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Drs. Reimann and Dr. Fosse,

To the post beclow, I might add here that a more extensive exposition of
Swami Dayanada's theory of Trivishtapa being the origin of Homo Sapiens is
found in his series of 15 lectures called 'Poona Pravacana.' These were
delivered by the Swami during his trip to Poona. The lectures were extempore
and were translated and published in Marathi subsequently. Hindi
translations of these lectures are available easily. Eg.

1. Poona Pravacana Ed. by Pt. Rajvira Sastri; Arsha Sahitya Pracar Trust;
Khari Baoli; Delhi-110006

Later Arya Samajist scholars have systematized this idea considerably in
works like
1. Vedavidyanidarsana
2. The Story of Creation
(Both by Pt. Bhagvad Datta)

I also strongly recommend
3. Mahabharata ki Samalocana by Pt. Damodara Satavalekar
wherein the author has done a commendable task of identifying Trivistapa
with Tibet on the basis of data in the Mahabharata.

I summary then, Swami Dayanand rejected the AIT theory as he considered
Aryavarta uninhabited before humans from Tibet inhabited it.

Really speaking, Swami Dayanand has not contradicted himself. This is
because, according to him Humans were created 1.9 billion years ago (see
Chapter 7 of Satyartha Prakasa and also the relevant portions of
Rgvedadibhasyabhumika). Therefore, if he felt that humans moved into India
even, say a billion years ago, he had correctly used the words "from times
immemorial).

Nevertheless, Swami Dayanand did contradict himself sometimes. For instance,
In Satyartha Prakasa Chap 11, he declares at the beginning that till the
Mahabharata War (reckoned to have been waged in the 32nd Cent. B.C.E.), the
Vaidik Dharma reigned supreme all over the world. Yet, a few pages later he
writes that the Native Americans were barbarians for aeons till the
Europeans civilized them. This contradiction is acknwowledged even by the
late great Pt. Yudhisthhir Mimamsaka (vide a footnote in his annotated
edition of the Satyartha Prakasa).

Regarding Tilak, he was challanged to a debate by Syamji Krishna Varma and
other Indian Pundits. But, Tilak shied away by stating that his theory was
based solely on the English translations of the Rgveda by Wilson, Griffith
et al. The text of this letter has been reproduced in numerous Arya Samaj
publications in Vernacular languages. (Hindi, Marathi).

Savarkar accepted the notions probably  because of the conjectures advanced
in the article:

http://members.xoom.com/KoenraadElst/articles/zydenbos.html

Nevertheless, I look forward to reading Mr. Fosse's article and would be
obliged if he sends me the reference when the same is published.

Regards

Vishal


----Original Message Follows----
From: Luis Gonzalez-Reimann <reimann at UCLINK4.BERKELEY.EDU>
Subject: Re: !Re: Sri Aurobindo
Date: Sat, 12 Jun 1999 20:48:26 -0700

Lars Martin,

Your sources are correct.  I checked The Light of Truth," although the page
numbers in the edition I have here with me are not the same.  It is
Dayananda
who seems to contradict himself.

See the long quote below, which I copied with a scanner.

Luis


Dayananda Saraswati on the origin of the Aryas
