>?From an old member, I have set the Reply-To field to him...

--
Alan Thew                                       alan.thew at liverpool.ac.uk
Computing Services,University of Liverpool      Fax: +44 151 794-4442

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Dear members of the List:

Please find below details of an all-day seminar, "Hindi in the Next
Century," to be held in Perth, Australia on Saturday, September 11, 1999.
Unfortunately the conference is been organised in great haste, so apologies
go out for the lack of advance notice. Anyone interested in presenting a
paper or otherwise participating would be most welcome indeed.

Paul Arney
Treasurer,
The Hindi Academy of Western Australia
paul_arney at bigpond.com <mailto:paul_arney at bigpond.com>
phone & fax: + (618) 9330 3198


-------------------
The Hindi Academy of Western Australia:
Seminar On
HINDI IN THE NEXT CENTURY

The Hindi Academy of Western Australia is pleased to announce that it will
be holding a seminar on 11 September 1999 called "Hindi in the Next
Century". During this all-day conference the importance of the Hindi
language to Indians living in Australia will be examined from a variety of
perspectives.

With the world-wide dominance of English, increasing globalization, and
growing access to the Internet, the relevance of Hindi to future generations
of Indian-Australians as a vehicle for the transmission of Indian culture,
beliefs and values seems increasingly problematic. Yet Hindi is the national
language of India and the fourth most widely spoken language in the world.
Closer economic ties between Australia and India have been much touted by
both the business community and politicians, with the emerging middle class
in India heralded as a market of vast, untapped potential. Members of
Perth's Indian community and academics from around Australia will examine
these and related issues, as well as discuss developments in Hindi pedagogy.
The seminar, which has been planned to coincide with the golden jubilee of
the declaration of Hindi as India's national language, will include
presentations in both English and Hindi.


This seminar will be inaugurated by the
Honourable Mike Board JP, MLA
Minister for Works; Services; Youth; Citizenship and Multicultural Interests

The keynote address will be delivered by
His Excellency C. P. Ravindranathan
The High Commissioner of India


Date: 11 September 1999
Time: 9.00am - 5.00pm
Venue: Hollis Theatre No 1, Curtin University of Technology, Bentley Campus,
Perth
(Car Park 3 has been reserved for Hindi Seminar attendees)
Cost: $10 per person (includes lunch, morning and afternoon tea & coffee)
RSVP: Payment must be received by Monday 6 September 1999. Cheques are to be
made out to The Hindi Academy of Western Australia and sent with
registration form to the Secretary, The Hindi Academy of Western Australia,
PO Box 70, Bull Creek, WA 6154



The Hindi Academy of Western Australia is committed to serving the interests
of the Hindi-Urdu speaking community of Perth. The academy organises various
activities throughout the year including cultural evenings, radio programs,
picnics, quizzes, debates and seminars. The academy also publishes a
bi-monthly newsletter and an annual magazine in Hindi. For further
information about The Hindi Academy of Western Australia and its activities
contact the President, Dr. Dilawar Singh (+[61]8 9354 7051)
<dsingh at webace.com.au <mailto:dsingh at webace.com.au>>; or the Secretary, Dr.
Ravi Tiwari (+[61]8 9417 8394) <ravi at possum.murdoch.edu.au
<mailto:ravi at possum.murdoch.edu.au>>.




