>???From temple relics to museum fossils

The Burmese people are still deeply religious, and religious
commemoration matters to them more than museums, which have in the
West become such dominant  institutions, absorbing palaces and
churches. The museum is a new concept in Burma introduced by  the
regime to enhance its national and international prestige. It has
built exceedingly large museums to compete with pagodas. In Pagan one
of the largest structures is the new archaeological museum and Pagan
is now commonly referred to as a 'veritable museum'. However, the
museums seek almost exclusively to represent Burmese tradition for
tourists in the hope of collecting dollars. These museums, for
whatever public they are  organized, local or tourist, are sheer
propaganda. They do not respond to the intellectual sensibilities of
the Burmese peoples and do not open their eyes to what is happening
worldwide just in case they see how backward Burma is under military
leadership.

In Burma pagodas are vibrant and alive in local and national folklore.
The regime wishes to control these places of independent worship. What
better excuse than occupying and overshadowing these in the name of
heritage conservation? Though it attempts to museumify the pagoda
environment, it is unwilling to concede that it cannot control all
aspirations of all people all of the time; people need independent
institutions and practices that positively and independently stimulate
their intellectual curiosity and religious sensibilities.

Today, regrettably the only culture untainted by the regime's grasp is
therefore mental culture, the culture produced in personal meditation
that uproots the walls and partitions of the house, 'all your rafters
are shattered - my mind is free from active thought.'. Behind prison
bars these practices today are yielding new martyrs (azani) with fresh
relics - such is the resilient politics of enlightenment. Fossils are
no comfort and reproduce themselves differently in very different
spheres of exchange. Meditation traditions are flourishing in Burma
today, as never before. END
-------------------------------------------------------------------
caption
One of the many popular vipassana (insight contemplation) sessions,
held in a community neighbourhood centre in which temporary yogi find
momentary respite from their everyday worries by contemplating the
impermanence, suffering and insubstantiality of existence. The
technique is often practised by intellectuals and government
reformers, and it is particularly important today among  those
advocating non-violent government reform and among the large
population of Burma's political prisoners. This practice is held up by
some in the democracy movement as one of the last hopes for political
reconciliation.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
ANTHROPOLOGY TODAY front cover caption:
Our front cover illustrated the article on Burma by Gustaaf Houtman in
this issue (p. 13); it shows both sides of a photograph amulet card
depicting the Thamanya Sayadaw in his 20s, after he had spent seven
rainy seasons as a fully ordained monk (i.e. in addition to
novicehood) in the monastic order. Such photographs are distributed to
pilgrims and commonly displayed in situations of danger. Most taxi
drivers in Rangoon keep a picture of this monk on their window screen
for safety. On the reverse side are his hand-prints, indicating his
sanctity.
Today in his 80s, the Thamanya Sayadaw (`sayadaw'='abbot'), also
knownn as U Winaya, resides at the foot of Thamanya Mountain near
Pa-an in the Karen State in East Burma, an area that has never been
fully under control by Burmese central government. He has become a
potent symbol of monastic independence from government and is visited
daily by busloads of pilgrims, who may eat a plentiful vegetarian
(i.e. free from killing) meal at no charge. His monastery is
surrounded by about 7,000 families within a three mile radius, all of
whom take care of infrastructural projects voluntarily as an act of
merit, and partake of a vegetarian diet in sympathy with his emphasis
on loving-kindness (metta). Daw Aung San Suu Kyi's first visit after
release from her house arrest in 1995 was to this monk. She herself is
said to have become vegetarian under his influence and her philosophy
of democracy is also that of metta. This monk is much respected also
by the military, even though his monastery has been an oasis for the
poor and deprived and for refugees passing through. Further
information may be found in Houtman's book Mental Culture in Burmese
Crisis Politics.

Caption
Cartoon by Saw Ngo, 1995 from Bang! Bang! SLORC, published by Green
November-32, Thailand, 1996._(Green November-32 proclaims to be the
first Burmese organization devoted to human rights and environmental
issues).

Caption
One of the 'totem emblems' or 'symbols of the clans of the national
races' from the Guide to the National Museum, Yangon (Rangoon).

Caption:
Cartoon by Saw Ngo, 1995, commenting on the representation of Burma by
