From ke.raadsrots at UNICALL.BE  Thu Sep  9 07:18:08 1999
From: ke.raadsrots at UNICALL.BE (Koenraad Elst)
Date: Thu, 09 Sep 99 09:18:08 +0200
Subject: Total instruments of debate
Message-ID: <161227052111.23782.13452231323215317188.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

So, Dr. Zydenbos, a reference to Nazism is not a reference to Hitler?  Well,
that is what I call pedantic.  Especially in the business of smearing, the
two terms have exactly the same effect.  And in the case under
consideration, they are equally untrue.

My "obscurantist racialist views"?  Ah, yes, you provide the proof straight
from my website: the para title "the importance of being white".  The
combination of this phrase with your description of it as racialist will
give the unsuspecting reader the impression that the phase is racialist.  In
reality, I have of course not made any racist statement in the so-titled
para (third parties may verify my website article).  The phrase is a
description of a psychological state of affairs in India which explains much
of the influence still held by the AIT in India, viz. the prestige of
Western scholarship.  You yourself falsely accused Prof. SR Rao of racism
for having said to a student that he shouldn't believe what white people
say.  That advice of Rao's was precisely in reaction to the racial prejudice
which imputes automatic superiority in sobre scientific thinking to whites,
a prejudice which many Indians interiorized in colonial days and which still
lingers somewhat.  It was basically an anti-racist statement which your
contrived interpretation has turned into a racist one.

I am appalled at the manipulative tricks in your attacks on me.  I had
already pointed out that Western AIT defenders with academic titles
suggesting sobriety and detachment are just as prone to use intemperate
language and loosely impute motives as their Indian "pamplettist" opponents,
a fact which has recently been verified on this very list.  Though I get
annoyed at the bad debating manners of some of my Indian friends, I have
never seen them stoop to your level, Dr. Zydenbos.  I will not reply to your
mails anymore.  And I'm sure most list members would like to see this
exchange stop.

Yours sincerely,
Koenraad Elst
http://members.xoom.com/KoenraadElst/




