From sstephen at MEDICALNET.NET  Sat Sep 11 07:14:20 1999
From: sstephen at MEDICALNET.NET (S Stephen)
Date: Sat, 11 Sep 99 07:14:20 +0000
Subject: Tamil heritage
Message-ID: <161227052173.23782.4570833820801469814.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Indologists,

I have decided to go back on my word :-( and start posting to the list.

nanda chandran wrote:
, also note that Thiruvalluvar himself mentions brAhmanas in
> his
> work. So that would prove the existence of brAhmanas also in his
> environment.

Did the word brahmana always have the same meaning as it does today? Flavius
Arrianus divides Indians into seven castes. Which of these is brahmana?

Thanks.
Sujatha

Following is the translated text from Flavius Arrianus' Indica that refers
to castes:

All the Indians have been divided into seven castes. Among them are the wise
men, fewer in number than the others, but most esteemed in reputation and
dignity. For no necessity is incumbent upon them to do any bodily labour;
nor do they contribute anything to the commonwealth from the effects of
their labour; nor in a word have they any compulsory duty except to offer
sacrifices to the gods on behalf of the commonwealth of India. Whoever
sacrifices in his private capacity has one of these wise men as a director
of the sacrifice, since otherwise he does not offer acceptable sacrifice to
the gods. These also are the only Indians skilled in divination; and it is
not lawful for anyone to practise the art except for a man who is a wise
man. They practise divination in regard to the seasons of the year, and if
any calamity befalls the commonwealth. It is not their business to practise
their art in regard to the private affairs of individuals, either because
the art of divination does not extend to smaller matters, or because it is
not worthy of them to labour about such things. Whoever has made three
errors in his practise of divination receives no other punishment except
that for the future he is compelled to be silent; and there is no one who
can compel that man to speak, upon whom the judgment of silence has been
passed. These wise men pass their lives naked; in the winter in the sun
under the open sky, but in the summer, when the sun holds sway, they live in
the meadows and in the marshes under great trees, the shadow of which
Nearchus says extends 500 feet all round, and I0,000 men could be shaded
under one tree. So large are these trees. They feed on the fruits of the
seasons and the inner bark of trees, which is both pleasant and nutritious;
not less so than dates.

After these the second caste are the agriculturalists, who are the most
numerous class of Indians. These have no martial weapons, nor do they care
for deeds of war, but till the soil. They pay dues to the kings or to those
cities which are independent. If any war happens to break out among the
Indians with each other it is not lawful for them to touch the tillers of
the soil, or to lay waste the country itself by destroying the crops. But
while others are waging war against each other and slaying each other as
they find the chance, they are ploughing in peace and quietness near them,
or are gathering in the vintage, or are pruning their vines, or are reaping
their crops.

The third caste of Indians are the shepherds and the cowherds, who dwell
neither in cities nor in villages; but are nomads and live up and down the
mountains. They pay a tax from their flocks and herds. These men also catch
birds and hunt wild beasts throughout the land.

12. The fourth caste is that of the artisans and retail tradesmen. These men
perform public duties at their own cost, and pay a tax upon their work,
except those who make weapons of war. These receive pay from the
commonwealth. In this caste are the shipwrights and sailors who sail up and
down the rivers.

The fifth caste of the Indians consists of the warriors, who in number come
next to the husbandmen and enjoy very great freedom and good cheer. These
men practise nothing but warlike exercises. Others make the weapons for
them, others provide them with horses; and others serve them in the camp,
who groom the horses for them, keep their weapons bright, manage the
elephants, keep the chariots in order, and drive the horses. They themselves
fight, as long as it is necessary to wage war; but when there is peace, they
live with good cheer; and they receive such high pay from the state that
they can easily support others from it.

The sixth caste of Indians consists of men who are called overseers. These
supervise what is done throughout the country and in the cities, and make
reports to the king, where the Indians are ruled by a king, or to the
magistrates where the people have a democratic government. It is unlawful
for these men to make false reports; but no Indian has incurred the charge
of falsehood.

The seventh caste consists of those who assist the king in deliberating on
public affairs, or assist the officials in the cities which enjoy a
democratic government. This class is small in number, but in wisdom and
