same ordeal we have gone through. From time to time smear with oil and keep
these letters shining. You will be blessed for your good deed. My fellow
countrymen will be grateful." With these words, we also showed him our
appreciation." These are Somu's words.

What are the lessons from this?
1. Pope's tomb is covered in brush for lack of proper care. If it was like
that 40 years ago, what is the situation now?
2. The headstone does not reflect Pope's last wish. It should have the
inscription "Tamil Student."

A request to London Tamils.

G. U. Pope was English by birth. But he was Tamil, Out and out pure Tamil. He
was one of our Mother Tamil's blessed sons. "A few shining stars, the gift of
God to foster virgin Tamil, and G. U. Pope was one of the few." So praised
'Tamil gentle breeze' Thiru V.Ka, G. U. Pope with his "word garland of
renown."
    We are indebted to such a praiseworthy one and deserve our gratitude.
    Pope's tomb needs checking now. We have to make it presentable. A
memorial marble headstone with the appropriate inscription both in English
and Tamil describing his several good deeds to Tamil with

            TAMIL STUDENT

   Dr. G. U. Pope is sleeping here.

Born                            Died

24 - 4 - 1820                       11 - 2- 1908
(Inscribed in both Tamil and English)

    Pope deserves a mausoleum at the site of his tomb for his services to
Tamil. Since, it is in a different country that may not be practical. But
there should be no difficulty in erecting a memorial headstone.
    Any government action involves another country that will be time
consuming as exchange of files take years.
    London Tamils, if they decide, can accomplish this within a month.

Is donation required?

Indications are Tamil nobilty within Tamil Nadu and elsewhere are ready to
donate generously.

Tamils of London!

    If you desire, - if you undertake, a mausoleum for Pope with no equal
will be a reality in no time.

    Do this; do in haste; then and then only Pope will rest in Peace.]




