From andrew.ollett at gmail.com  Sun Oct  2 20:34:18 2022
From: andrew.ollett at gmail.com (Andrew Ollett)
Date: Sun, 2 Oct 2022 15:34:18 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Instructional Professor in Sanskrit (University of
 Chicago)
Message-ID: <CAANHO16yoztXQn2dyH5zKD7MQZTz-oDEBhDERfdH9TP-XvkJ-w@mail.gmail.com>

Dear colleagues,

I call your attention to the following job posting for the position of
Instructional Professor in Sanskrit at the University of Chicago. Please
share this information with anyone who might be interested in applying.

All best wishes,

Andrew Ollett

---------------------------------


*Instructional Professor in Sanskrit*

*Position Description*The Department of South Asian Languages and
Civilizations and the College of the University of Chicago invites
applications for a position as an Instructional Professor (open rank) in
Sanskrit. The position begins in academic year 2023?24, with a start date
of September 1, 2023 or as soon as possible thereafter. The selected
candidate will be appointed at the rank of Assistant Instructional
Professor, Associate Instructional Professor, or Instructional Professor,
depending on qualifications and educational background. The initial
appointment will be for a minimum of two years, with longer initial terms
possible depending on initial rank, with review and progression schedule
determined by a collective bargaining agreement between the University and
the Service Employees International Union.


*Qualifications*Applicants must have advanced proficiency in Sanskrit and
evidence of excellence in teaching Sanskrit at the university level. An
M.A./MPhil degree or foreign equivalent degree is required. A Ph.D. in a
related field is desirable. Preferred qualifications include proficiency in
another South Asian language, advanced training in South Asian area
studies, and specialized training in second-language pedagogy.

*Responsibilities*
Responsibilities include both teaching and service duties. Teaching
normally consists of seven courses across three quarters, six of which are
Sanskrit courses at the beginning and intermediate levels of the language.
One additional course may include non-language offerings in the College
Core or in the Department of South Asian Languages and Civilizations, to be
determined in consultation with the Department and College. There may also
be an opportunity to teach occasional courses in another South Asian
language, depending on departmental need as well as the ability and
experience of the selected candidate. Service duties may include advising
undergraduate theses, teaching independent studies, and engaging in
outreach, or other program-specific duties. Instructional Professors of all
ranks are required to engage in regular professional development.


*Application Instructions*To apply for this position, please submit your
application through the University of Chicago?s Academic Recruitment
website at http://apply.interfolio.com/112938. An application must include:

   - a cover letter;
   - curriculum vitae;
   - a teaching statement;
   - one sample syllabus for a Sanskrit language course at the beginning or
   intermediate level;
   - a second sample syllabus for a non-language course; and
   - the names and contact information of three references who can supply
   letters of recommendation upon request.

Application deadline: *All applicant materials must be received by January
9th 2023.* Candidates may be asked to provide additional materials
following the initial review.

This position is contingent upon budgetary approval. The terms and
conditions of employment for this position are covered by a collective
bargaining agreement between the University and the Service Employees
International Union. For information on the Department of South Asian
Languages and Civilizations, please visit https://salc.uchicago.edu/. For
questions about the position, please contact Tracy Davis
<tracyd at uchicago.edu.>.

*Equal Employment Opportunity Statement*
We seek a diverse pool of applicants who wish to join an academic community
that places the highest value on rigorous inquiry and encourages diverse
perspectives, experiences, groups of individuals, and ideas to inform and
stimulate intellectual challenge, engagement, and exchange. The
University?s Statements on Diversity are at
https://provost.uchicago.edu/statements-diversity.

The University of Chicago is an Affirmative Action/Equal
Opportunity/Disabled/Veterans Employer and does not discriminate on the
basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
national or ethnic origin, age, status as an individual with a disability,
protected veteran status, genetic information, or other protected classes
under the law. For additional information please see the University's
Notice of Nondiscrimination
<https://www.uchicago.edu/about/non_discrimination_statement/>.

Job seekers in need of a reasonable accommodation to complete the
application process should call 773-834-3988 or email
equalopportunity at uchicago.edu with their request.
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20221002/f3b1fa78/attachment.htm>

