From andrew.ollett at gmail.com  Wed Nov  9 01:11:59 2022
From: andrew.ollett at gmail.com (Andrew Ollett)
Date: Tue, 8 Nov 2022 19:11:59 -0600
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Assistant or Associate Professor of Instruction in the
 Hindi language (UT Austin)
Message-ID: <CAANHO159DF0mm=wP_Nc9ES-J9j1En=9TZ4GzW4WA+Ja9VTqGoQ@mail.gmail.com>

Dear colleagues,

I am posting this advertisement for a position in Hindi at the University
of Texas, Austin, on behalf of a colleague who is not on the list:

https://faculty.utexas.edu/career/107216

The description from this link is pasted below.

Andrew
------------------

*Assistant or Associate Professor of Instruction in the Hindi language*

*Description*
The Department of Asian Studies at the University of Texas at Austin
invites applications for a full-time, non-tenure track Assistant or
Associate Professor of Instruction in the Hindi language, to begin Fall
semester 2023. The position carries the possibility of annual renewal,
contingent upon job performance, the continued needs of the department, and
availability of program funding. The successful candidate will be
responsible for teaching three courses per semester, including a
combination of Hindi courses and thematic courses in Asian Studies,
according to departmental needs. We invite applicants with expertise in any
broad area of South Asian Studies. Located at the flagship campus of the
University of Texas System, our department offers a congenial and exciting
context for teaching and research in the languages and cultures of South
Asia.

*Qualifications*
Candidates must have at minimum a Master?s degree (Ph.D. is strongly
preferred) in the Hindi language or in a closely-related field, as well as
advanced training in South Asian Studies. A record of teaching excellence
in a university context is strongly preferred. We are especially interested
in candidates who will contribute to diversity, equity, and inclusion in
higher education through their teaching, research, and service.


*Application Instructions*Interested candidates are invited to upload via
Interfolio: 1) a cover letter describing their qualifications and teaching
experience, 2) a detailed curriculum vitae, 3) two syllabi?one for a
first-year Hindi course and one for a South Asian Studies course, and 4)
three letters of recommendation. The review of applications will begin on
December 15, 2022, but the position will remain open until filled. Please
direct questions about the search to Prof. Dalpat Rajpurohit (
drajpurohit at austin.utexas.edu) with the words ?Hindi search? in the subject
line. Rank and salary will depend upon qualifications.

For additional application instructions, please contact Faith Hanley (
faith.hanley at austin.utexas.edu). If you do not have a dossier account with
Interfolio, you will be prompted to create one prior to applying for the
position. Assistance is available from Interfolio?s Customer Support:
help at interfolio.com or call (877) 997-8807.


*Equal Employment Opportunity Statement**The University of Texas at Austin,
as an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, complies with all
applicable federal and state laws regarding nondiscrimination and
affirmative action. The University is committed to a policy of equal
opportunity for all persons and does not discriminate on the basis of race,
color, national origin, age, marital status, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity, gender expression, disability, religion, or veteran status
in employment, educational programs and activities, and admissions.*
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20221108/a92a7eb2/attachment.htm>

