From giravani at JUNO.COM  Sat Jan 20 15:18:05 2001
From: giravani at JUNO.COM (Narayan R.Joshi)
Date: Sat, 20 Jan 01 15:18:05 +0000
Subject: Karnatak/Kannada
Message-ID: <161227066732.23782.8797318089772351149.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

In the postings related to Karnatak/Kannada thread, it was interesting to
see the relationship between Kannada adjective hiriya and Tamil Periya
(meaning-old/great/senior)and between hindu and pindu.Is Kannada word
HudagA (boy,son)related to any Tamil word? It was also reported that the
word "ayyavole"<"ayyapole. Here one can see interchange of sounds "V"
and"P" similar to VaNijya (BaniyA-trader) and PaNi.Such interchange is
observed elsewhere, e.g., Sanskrit Vijaya and Persian Piroja.Perhaps
Sanskrit Var.sA(rain) might be related to Marathi "PAUsa"(rain). Could
Tamil Periya be realated to Sanskrit Vari.s.tha (distinguished, senior)or
VaraNya(desirable) or Vidura(wise)?I also see sound shifting between "P"
and "B" like Pirami and Brahmi.My question is this-Is there any book
available describing sound changes(like Grimm's rule)among Sanskrit and
South Indian languages like Tamil, Telagu, Malayalam, Kannada and Marathi?
One has to admit that at least some parts of Six Darzanas discuss
Philosophy of Word and Meaning related to Sanskrit(may be of even other
language) words(Gaurinath Sastri). Sanskrit Garmmarians-phoneticians took
great efforts in developing terminology to describe minute variations
(length, accent, nasality) in sounds of Sanskrit language. What was the
purpose of all these efforts? Is anything wrong if we say hiriya in place
of Periya or Periya in place of Vari.s.tha or Vidura(assumption is made)?
In the age of computers and space travel, we get along with English where
words are lined next to each other without many inflections.What was the
need of the ancient cattle grazing and horse riding Aryans or their
descendants to make efforts in developing a language with elaborate
inflections? Was this an accident or conscious efforts? I do not see
today's cattle grazers engaging themselves in linguistic science.It is said
that language in its primitive stage was not dissolvable into parts. Was
precisely broken language a necessity to solve philosophical problems? Was
it misused to perform magic(like Indrajit of RAmAyaNa) by sacrificing an
animal in Yajnya or used to get salvation by chanting God's name?By the way
Islam the newest religion has animal sacrifice and of course the ancient
Jews definitely sacrificed animals at the alter in the Temple. Thanks.




