Ancient names of regions in Jambudveepa
(1)Raveen(Jan1)said he had knowledge about Kamboja,Maurya,Murunda,Mlecha
and Dravida from Prakrit versions of tribal groups in ancient ShriLanka but
could not find reference to Kurus.My question to Raveen and to all-what is
the difference between Kurus and Kambojas?
(2)I did not have any intension to relate Karave to Kurus because I have no
information about the castes or JAtis from Shri LankA. I was referring to
the time period between 1000 BCE to 326 BCE.In the past 2500 years of known
history many many changes might have happened in the names of castes and
JAtis.
(3)This is also true for the names of different geographical and political
regions of India. Geographically India was Jambudveepa and Lanka,
Ratnadveepa or Sinhalayo.To the best of my knowledge, in the known history
of 2500 years of India , there never existed liguistic states before
1950.NOw I am talking about the situation before 326 BCE. Alexanders
historians knew South India by the name Tabropane (TAmraparNI-river and
port name) because Indian ships from the port of TAmraparNI near Madras
were bigger in size than ships from Middle-east.However Indians were not
calling South India by that name because names of kingdoms all over in the
ancientr India were derived from dynasty names which in turn were derived
from proper names of the celebrated kings. Ishwaku,
Magadha,Kosal,Anga,Vanga,Kalinga, Cola, Cher, Pandya, Shibi, Sauvira,
GAndhara,Kuru, Kamboja were all propers names of kings given to their
kingdoms. In the same way the ancient name of some region ofthe present
Karnatak was "Kuntala Desha" after the proper name of the
king "Kuntala".THere are exceptions to the rule. Also I do not say Kuntal
and Kannada are related because I do not have information how the names had
changed after 326 BCE. The modern languages is continuous dynamic
linguistic process. I , single person, cannot study every detail of every
part of India from 550 BCE to this day, Languages are changing even
today.However pre-history of India to me looks very different when I find
the Kerala king signing trade agreement with king Soloman(1000 BCE) in
Sanskrit. Persian king Daurius called his mother tongue Arya BhA.sA. HIs
order to build Suvez canal was in that language. One can rename Arya BhA.sA
by different fabricated name in the way the old Periplus was suppressed and
replaced by new Periplus of Erythrean seas.Fabricated labels is the trick.
