Old Babylonian kinnArum included, actually go back to an Amorite etymon.
Yet
the word looks decidedly non-Semitic in its structure...
Agreed, this word cannot be Semitic.
Parpola:
kinnArum by assuming that it was, as a cultural word, borrowed by the
Amorites from Harappan traders in the entrepots of the Persian Gulf (cf.
the
later introduction of the instrument and its name from Canaan to Egypt:
Helck
1962, 540). This would have taken place in the 20th century B.C., leaving
just enough time for the kinnArum to become a thoroughly assimilated
Amorite
item by the 18th century. The Amorites cannot have reached the Persian Gulf
much earlier, and the word was in all probability borrowed just there and
not
in Mesopotamia, because the word is not found in Sumerian."
It is true that the word is not attested in Sumerian, but this does not
mean that it could not have been Sumerian. *Kinnari would equally have been
possible in Hurrian, where it would denote "something that is repeatedly
kinn-ing". Since we do not know the meaning of the root kinn-, it is
useless to speculate, but I find a Hurrian etymology very tempting, since
the addition of -ari to a root is one of the most common ways of making
Hurrian nouns. A few examples:
ellari - sheep
ha$ari - oil
herari - upper arm
hiari - gold
hurmari - an animal
pedari - ox
tiari - spindle
kakkari - a kind of cake
purulzari - a temple functionary
Neither in Hurrian nor in Dravidian the -a- would be long. The lenghtening
of this vowel may be an analogy from na:ru, "musician, singer", something
that happened in the course of adapting the word to a Semitic language. It
is worth noting that the Greek vowels in kinura are short, and that there
are several derivations in Greek:
kinuros - wailing
kinu:romai - lament, bewail
Kinuras - a mythical king, a priest of Aphrodite in Cyprus, originally from
Byblos
Also, we should note that the Greek word kinara means "artichoke". So,
finding etymologies is a tricky business! By the way, among the hundreds of
Hurrian names known from Mari, four were female musicians/singers, perhaps
kinna:ru players?
Best wishes,
Bjarte Kaldhol
