Yogacara idealism
birgit kellner <birgit.kellner at UNIVIE.AC.AT>
on  Sun, 14 Jan 2001 17:53:40 -0500
the saholpalambha argument by the opponents of the Yogacara position (most
notable of these being the Nyaya-Vaisesika,Mimansaka, Jain, and Vaibhasika
Budhists). I would suggest that you do so to at least gain some perspective
on how the philosophical opponents of the Yogacara view this argument (and
how they refute it).
the Yogacara view this argument, and the views of these scholars (opponents
of Yogacara) would not be in agreement of your views on this matter, in my
opinion.
" You assert: 'The real reason for the co-comprehension is the identity of
the conception of the object comprehended.' But this is never true. And
certainly, you have not been questioned by me to afford you the occasion for
making any wild assertion you please.
None experiences the character of both the comprehender and the comprehended
with regard to a single entity. Nor can such a dual character be ever
established by inference, specially on the assumption  that everything is
sensation (for inference means the knowledge of something from something
else)."
-Kumarila Bhatta, Sloka Vartika, sunya-vada 64
several other absurdities in the sahopalambha argument.
argument:
"Many persons perceive a blue thing at one and the same time. Now, here
though a person cognizes "the blue", he does not cognise the "cognition of
the blue" occuring in another person's mind. If the blue and the cognition
of the blue were identical, he would have perceived even the cognition of
the blue occuring in anothe person's mind."
And then again, says Akalanka--"na hi jatu visajnanam maranam
pratidhavati"--death does not result from the mere knowledge or the idea of
the poison. "If venom is not an external reality but only a form of
consciousness or an idea, how could there take place the phenomenon of death
on taking it? We do not die simply on account of our having an idea of the
venom. "
Shah (pgs 175-177)
that the mind alone is real, how can one fulfill the elementary duties such
as charities, etc.?..When one practises repeatedly and several times a
charity-thought (i.e. charity in the form of mere thought, or more simply,
the bare idea of charity), it never releases anybody from poverty."
The main difficulty in your
(iii.353-5), Dharmakirti says: "How knowledge which is the sole existing
reality can appear in the form of objects, even i do not know...just as
people under the spell of magic, see pieces of mud, etc. not in their own
form but in certain other forms, so does knowledge appear there not in its
own form but in the form of objects."
[--> I had earlier specified that the above quote was from the NB; i was
wrong .]
had earlier said that Jinendrabudhi is not the most important commentator of
Dignaga in ur earlier post (in response to what i had claimed earlier). But,
if the PS is the most important work of Dignaga, and if it is only
Jinendrabudhi's commentary on this work that we now have available, then it
would appear that ur earlier statement was erroneous.
Kumarila Bhatta (in particular on Kumarila's views on "Moksha") between
Parthasarathi Mishra (the major commentator of Kumarila), and  the other
commentators of Kumarila. But just because two commentators disagree with
each other does not mean that we cannot take a look at both of them (to
better understand the source book).
straightforward. (Dharmottara is a lot more scholarly).
That is how Vachaspati Mishra (considered to be very reliable normally)
defines this word.
dropped the characterestic of non-illusoriness ["Abhranta"], since he knows
this non-illusoriness is suicidal for his whole system." But why is it so?
Stcherbatsky, while commenting on this, explains: such an addition could be
"interpreted as excluding the view of the Yogacaras, for whom all emperical
cognition was a hopeless illusion" (Budhist Logic 156). If ideas, and ideas
alone are real, then all knowledge of ordinary life are necessarily
illusory. In other words, to talk of right perception as non-illusory
amounts to the surrender of the Yogacara position, something which Dignaga
does not wish to do.
knowledge, been reconstructed quite satisfactorily.
here.
At any rate, commentators introduced the criterion of a harmonization with
YogAcAra- and/or
of Indian philosophy, it is not difficult to see why the commentators would
feel uncomfortable in discussing as to whether Dharmakirti is speaking from
the Sautantrika position (in his works on logic). [ One remembers that the
Sautantrika is a school within Hinayana Budhism, while the Yogacara is
within the Mahayana Budhism.] There is no dispute about Dignaga, to my
knowledge: he speaks from the Yogacara position even when he deals with
logic (since he cleverly changes the ordinary meaning of perception and
drops the principle of non-illusion).
is because he is criticising the Yogacara position (a school of thought u
are obliged to defend, being a Tibetan Budhist scholar).
a "draft for discussion". So if one were to read it expecting fancy and
obscure terminology (which some modern scholars are very fond of afaik),
then one would indeed be dissappointed.
of Chattopadhyaya (from Reipe's book "Objectivity and Subjectivism in the
Philosophy of Science with Special Reference to India", pg 93): "It seems
clear that without a knowledge of Debiprasad's Lokayata we cannot understand
the main ideas and arguments of classical to modern Indian philosophy, and
without "What is living and what is dead in Indian philosophy", we cannot
fathom the development of Indian metaphysics, epistemology, and ethics as we
find them today. As a worthy student of Surendranath Dasgupta, Debiprasad
has become his successor as the most important historian of Indian
philosophy of his own time."
here, but again, i'll let this pass.
this" when asked whether the Yogacara was an idealistic school, when asked
whether it denied external objects, etc. When you do not have an opinion on
such basic questions, and continue to be evasive with these kind of
statements, (despite claiming to be a Budhist scholar) it does seem a little
odd to me.
strongly protest to the effect that this argument does not deny the
independent existence of external objects (even though that is how the
opponents of the Yogacara have viewed this).
denies the reality of external objects) would mean that no one on this List
would take Tibetan Budhist scholars seriously anymore (since Tibetan Budhism
is really Mahayana Budhism as is well known).
radically different from yours.
this" when it comes to fundamental questions like whether the Yogacara
denies the reality of external objects?
it has any bearing on the issues we are now discussing.
full when i have more time). Further, my interest lies not in defending
Chattopadhyaya but in criticising the Yogacara. I believe the Mahayana
Budhism (and also Hindu idealism) did great damage to India in the past (by
weakening the fighting spirit of the Indian people), and some of the
idealistic ideas (like "karma", etc. )are continuing to be an obstacle to
social progress, especially at the grass roots rural level.
Best,
Satya
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
