Ahura Mazda
To the best of my knowledge, Ahura Mazda is neither the invention nor the
discovery of the ancient Zoroastrian, or Persian or Iranian people. Ahura
Mazda was also worshipped by Sumerians and Babylonians long before 550 BCE
when Persians established their empire. There are difference of opinions
among scholars whether Cyrus the Great was Zoroastrian or not. Daurius was
and he belonged to Kavi family.Behind a man flying on a bird with ring in
hand there is the ancient myth. Nowadays different scholars gave different
interpretation to the bearded man with ring in hand and with wings like a
bird. The same myth relates to  pre-Islamic Al Khidra and also to the Al
Khidar from Holy Kuran. There is an old temple dedicated to Al Khidar in
Kuwait even today. Behind all stories there is the God from the Garden of
Eden of the Old Testament.
Yakshas were half or step brothers of Rakshsas. They were different from
Adityas(children of Aditi-wife of Kashyapa-also called Devas-epithet),
Daityas were children of second wife Diti of Kashyapa,DAnavas were children
of Danu.To the best of my knowledge, connecting the word Ahura to Asur
produces complicated results. There could be one of two consonants or
vowels before the word Ahura that were dropped due to linguistic changes.
This is also true with the name of the ancient people Assyrians. The names
Sumerians, Assyrians, Medes, are fabricated names just like the name MAyA
of the people from the Central America. Indian scholars taking these names
as original names when try to related them to Sanskrit names (like
Assyrians to Asuras) become laughing stocks among the people who fabricated
these names for their own ease in writing these ancient names.
Also Indra appears to be an epithet of the king of Adityas. First Indra had
a son by name Jayanta. Also the meaning of word Indra could be dispersion
because the rainbow is called Indra-Dhanu.sya. Indra is also recognized as
the ruler of the dispersion of water-rain. The word Indra is also used as
Narendra, Mrigendra. The word Indriya (senses) could be related to Indra
meaning dispersion because Indriyas have to be contolled to conserve
spiritual enery. Indra was famous in disturbing the spiritual practices of
the ancient sages by sending his damsels.Indra was king of Svarga. However
the word Suvarga was also mentioned.Thanks
