Did you hear this?
For whom tolls the bell?
Hello,
The Amarakosa says "Samskrtam krtrime" and so it has ever been a mother
tongue of any people. Sanskrit has been politicised in India. It is used by
the Hindu communalists as an instrument to rally people behind them.
Sanskrit is taught in ten days in the so-called 'Sibirams' and those who
attended such sibirams speak anything and everything as if it is Sanskrit.
Sanskrit is in this way, being corrupted everyday in India. But the Hindu
communalists still proceed with their venture. Those who are against them
ideologically are evaded. Recently, an international Bhagavad Gita seminar
was organised in my city, Trivandrum. As everyone knows, Gita is one of the
Prasthanatraya on which Vedanta is based. My centre, the Centre for Vedanta
Studies, of the University of Kerala, which is a unique centre, was not
even informed about the event, not to speak of being invited to
participate. At the same time, I was invited by the Bylorussian
Metropolitan-sponsored Theology Dept. of the European Humanities
University, Minsk to deliver lectures on Vedanta. My experience is that
Sanskrit as such is being protected by scholars outside India rather than
the Hindu communalists here. I don't think that all Sanskritists in India
are on the part of the communalists. Recently when there was a Sanskrit
students conference at Sampurnand University, Benares organised by the
'hidden communal forces', students revolted, which is a good sign. The
regime is extending their efforts to implement their 'hidden agenda' in the
field of Sanskrit studies also. Alert!
With regards,
Dr.K.Maheswaran Nair
Professor of Sanskrit &
Director,
Centre for Vedanta Studies,
University of Kerala,
Kariavattom P.O.
Trivandrum.
in
offer
school
physics
We
say.
English
method
language
West,"
under
our
developed
have
Translations
usable
muffled
to
finalized.
in
principles.
almost
the
million
pianoforte recitals than to sit and have my teeth drilled.  ... George
Bernard Shaw
