Did you hear this?
Exactly. One of my colleagues, who is a scholar of ancient Indian texts,
Hinduism and the Vedas, points out that now such scholars are in the
precarious position of being 'used' by communal forces, who quote them out
of context and politically exploit these scholar's legitimate claims for the
study of Sanskrit.
By the way I would like to ask all those who demand the revival of Sanksrit
on political grounds - ie like those who support Hindutva ideology - whether
they know Sanskrit. My question also is, given that they had a political
interest in the language, could they not teach themselves the language? I do
know of enough people, who out of interest and love for a language, have
taught themselves a language or have learnt it in non-formal, non-university
contexts. Please note, lest my words be interpreted wrongly or I be
misquoted, that I am *not* saying that people interested in Sanskrit should
have to learn it themselves. MY POSITION IS EXACTLY THE OPPOSITE - language
departments in India have been cannibalized, being the first casualties of
budgetary restrictions and the general attitude of state educational bodies
that only science and technology count as important. PLEASE ALSO NOTE THAT I
AM NOT ANTI-TECHNOLOGY OR ANTI-TECHOLOGICAL EDUCATION. However, what has
happened in the case of sanskrit and regional Indian languages, has also
happened, to a lesser degree admittedly, to most humanities subjects in
India. In the politics of education in post-independence India, the
humanities and social sciences - with the possible exception of economics -
have been treated as not worthy of study since they are 'non-utilitarian'
and not 'practical'. These subjects have been dismissed since the mistaken
prejudice is that they cannot get one 'a job in the real world'. This is
unfortunate, since these are as valid forms of knowledge as scientific
knowledge, and given that the two forms of knowledge can enhance each other
and also provide constructive critique of each other.
- Rohit
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
