Did you hear this?
Dear Dr K.Maheswaran Nair
Thank you. I agree entirely with whatever you say. I believe Sanskrit should
be taught as a subject in all humanities and higher educational institutes
in India. The demagogues of the Sangh Parivar have hijacked and communalised
Sanskrit, using it as an emblem of their ideology. Sanskrit thus becomes a
weapon in the hands of the pro-Sangh Parivar and Hindutva brigade, who use
it to attack the Indian left and secularists or the 'westernized elite'. The
latter are falsely accused of being anti-Sanskrit and by implication
anti-India.
But, one can wholeheartedly endorse that Sanskrit should be taught in India
and also be secular at the same time. One can also be comfortable with
elements of 'western' civilization, which whether we like it or not, have
played a role in our history due to the unfortunate historical reality of
colonization. In fact, a lot of people who take a pro-Hindutva stand seem to
have no problems reaping the fruits of western technology, whether in
computing or medicine, while at the same time denouncing the Nehruvian
vision as 'western' or 'elitist'. If I understand correctly, the Nehruvian
vision included a strong emphasis on technological and scientific
development through an emphasis on industrialisation. Industrialisation as a
historical phenomenon  originated in the west, at least the last I heard.
Whether the Nehruvian emphasis on technology translated into unqualified
success is debatable, as the reliance of Indian industry on imports and
license-Raj bureacracy were impediments. It is hoped that the so-called
'knowledge economy' may fulfill that earlier promise, though of course, it
will not benefit most of India's citizens. Thus those of us who criticize
and rubbish the Nehruvian vision as elitist, should not forget that, by the
same standards applied, all of us too are 'elitist'.
I should also point out that it is the Nehruvian vision which it makes it
possible for all of us today - whether we be in India or abroad (in the west
or elsewhere) to have this conversation on this online discussion forum.
However, one question about Sanskrit which you would be in the best position
to answer. I do not have a background in the language or the historical
context in which it emerged as an Indian language; neither am I versed with
the diachronic or synchronic linguistic work on it. However, I do have some
understanding, background and training in Indian history. I believe Sanskrit
was an elitist language, akin to Latin or Greek. It was a Brahmanical
language and the language of the people, at specific historical moments were
other languages, such as Pali. Why is it that just Sanskrit should be
taught? Why not other languages that have been forgotten? I agree that a
vast number of great texts have been written in Sanskrit, but is it not
elitist to dismiss the works in other languages as comparatively irrelevant
in the sense of not being worthy for much-needed resuscitation.  Is that not
elitist, since it makes the presumption that the language of the Brahmanical
and privileged castes is authentically Indian and thus worth preserving,
whereas the languages of other, comparatively less privileged segments of
society - the common people - are not?
I will draw an analogy from the 'west'  - which will annoy some on this
list, but it is only an analogy and is used here for purely heuristic value.
In medieval Europe, Latin was the privileged language in several European
languages and other languages, vernaculars such as French were looked down
upon. Again, it is undeniable that a majority of seminal texts were written
in Latin; however there was also equally wonderful work written in these
other languages.  Did not the same happen in India? Should we then not call
for the teaching of all ancient and neglected Indian languages; should we
not also call for a revival of more recent but neglected languages and
'dialects' such as Hindustani and Urdu (many of which I believe are
artifically termed dialects and are thus denied the privileges accorded to
'languages').
I would also like to raise another point here to pre-empt a section of
pro-RSS pro Hindutva advocates who communalize language issues in India.
This segment will often not consider Urdu a legitimate Indian language based
on the communal assumptions. My own understanding is that Urdu is an Indian
(and also a Pakistani) language since it was the language of a region that
covered what is now both India and Pakistan. Thus Punjabi Hindus, in my
grandparents generation, learnt Urdu as a first language. In fact,
Hindustani - the language with words with Sanskrit, and Urdu roots as well
as Persian and Arabic etymological connections is a more representative
North Indian language than the completely artifical Sanskritized Doordarshan
Hindi which unfortunately has become the only 'authentic' version of Hindi
that the Indian state endorses. This is not meant as a criticism of
Sanskrit, but only to point another instance of how languages, contemporary
and ancient, have been used as political tools in the politics of
post-Independence India.
Once again thanks for your mail. It is heartening to see non-communal views.
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
