From s.hodge at PADMACHOLING.FREESERVE.CO.UK  Wed Feb  7 19:34:35 2001
From: s.hodge at PADMACHOLING.FREESERVE.CO.UK (Stephen Hodge)
Date: Wed, 07 Feb 01 19:34:35 +0000
Subject: cakravartin's cremation
Message-ID: <161227067165.23782.6912075494864432187.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Ven. Tantra wrote:

> I get the impression that this is
> more like baking than reducing the body to ashes.
The probable result would be complete carbonization as with charcoal
with some calcination.

> Assuming the body, doubly enclosed in iron skillets,
> would not be directly touched by flames, would not the
> abundant mummy wraps function to absorb all the liquid
> and fat that the cadaver would exude when brought to
> extreme temperatures?
There are several factors one should consider here.  First it would
depend, I would think, on whether the containers were hermetically
sealed -- unlikely since the resulting pressures from the vaporization
of fluids and fats would result in a explosion or at least a bursting
of the seams of the containers.   Allowing that they were sealed but
not hermetically then the cremation would take place within the
containers with reduced oxygen which results in carbonization --
that's how charcoal is made -- with some calcination depending on how
long heat is applied and ta what temperature..  Another point is the
external heat of
the fire -- even if the body was not touched directly by the flames,
they would possibly heat up the metal until it was red hot -- the
result would not exactly be baking.   Also, allowing that the
containers are not sealed, this amount of heat would first liquify and
then vaporize the fats and other liquids which would expand / run out
and burn off.  The wrappings you mention would also be carbonized.
All this would seem to make it easier to retrieve substantial remains
/ relics.   However it is questionable whether the Buddha was cremated
in that manner since the traditional account of the allocation and
distribution of the Buddha's remains seems to talk of handfuls of
ashes although some substantial pieces of bone and teeth would have
remained.   In modern crematoria, whether gas, oil or electric, in the
West, it takes about 45 mins to cremate the body and coffin but even
then large pieces of bone are left over.  These are then collected and
put into a smaller retort / cylinder where they are subjected to 30
mins or so at a higher temperature to reduce them still further.
There are still largish peices of bone left since the finishing
touches are done with a large electric coffee grinder (yes, enjoy your
next cup of coffee).

Hope this helps but to be conclusive perhaps a practical experiment
might be arranged using an animal carcase ;)

Best wishes,
Stephen Hodge




