Vedic Brahmin practices in ancient South India
In his theory of Caste origins in Tamil culture using sangam
literature, George Hart has a paper, "Early evidence for Caste in
South India", Dimesions of Social Life: Essays in honor of David B.
Mandelbaum, 1987. Hart writes,
"Brahmins are found in the poems presiding at the
war sacrifice, in which the blood and intestines of dead
enemies were symbolically cooked up (PuRam 26), and
at a rite in which a king who died in bed was cut
with a sword to make it appear that he had been
killed in battle so that he could go to the Tamil
Valhalla (puRam 93)."
Cooking the blood and intestines of enemy king killed in battle
using a hearth made of chopped heads is found in Sangam texts,
Hart-Heifetz translation (puRam 93):
"... and you quickened the battle
  so that kings fell, and you captured
their royal drums and spread your fame!
and then, with food you had created, you
    sacrificed on the killing field,
using an oven of crowned heads after pouring
    out a torrent of blood
into the cooking pot and stirring it with the
    ladle of an arm still braceleted!
Ce_liya_n, murderous in battle! As Brahmins
   of the Four Vedas,
calm through the breadth of their knowledge,
devoted to restraint, surrounded you
and kings carried out your orders,
you completed the sacrifice established
by tradition! ..."
In medieval times, it is found in Karnataka,
and well explained in kalingattup paraNi in Tamil:
"Human beings were sacrificed on the stone by cutting through their
necks and separating the head from the body. The bodies
were kept together at one place, but the three heads were
picked up and arranged in the form of a hearth.
Food was cooked on this hearth."
(S. Silva 1955. Traces of human sacrifices in Kanara.
Anthropos 50:577-92)
In another poem, brahmin experts of the four vedas cut and split the
dead body so that the dead men can reach heaven. It was an ancient
Tamil custom, even if a very young male child dies, his body was cut
in two, and then buried or cremated (puRam 74). In fact, the tamil
name, "veTTiyAn2" (=cutter/splitter) refering to ex-outcaste persons
performing cremation rites refers to this ancient custom. Online Tamil
Lexicon entry: veTTiyAn2 1. a village menial servant;  2. one who
cremates corpses; 3. an insect that cuts off the leaves of crops
