SV: SV: SV: Plight of Buddhist art
The latest report from the BBC is that the demolitions have already
begun with tanks and rocket launchers.  There is no word on the
Bamiyan statues specifically (but then they are surely not the only
ones worth preserving).
I'll just make the points that I think are important, and end my
contribution (or hindrance) to this issue.
Everyone's interest here is, or was, in the preservation of the
statues.  It may be too late for that now.  The Taleban are in power
in Afghanistan and can carry out the decision they have taken.
Western governments at present have pretty much zero influence over
them because the West has chosen a stance of unrelenting enmity to the
Taleban.  Perhaps some Sunni clerics and figures in Pakistan still
have some influence, and if anyone knows who they are they should make
every effort to get strong statements or fatwas from them.  Apart from
that, Indologists can probably register their unhappiness for the
record as a group if they feel that is a record worth keeping.
If Indologists (or anyone, really) want to make an effective
difference to this sort of issue in the future they should be speaking
out against the policy of isolating entire countries and starving
their populations through UN sanctions.  For example, I haven't heard
Sumerologists or Assyriologists say a word about the effect that
turning Iraq into a gigantic poorly stocked ration shop since 1991 has
had on the preservation and maintenance of the Iraqi government's
priceless collection of Babylonian, Assyrian, and other Mesopotamian
relics.  Who knows how much has already been lost there?.
Lastly, commenting on the degree of fanaticism, folly, or other
perceived qualities of the Taleban in particular or Afghans in general
is squarely outside the professional competence of Indologists and
serves no useful purpose.  I have made my objections to Dr. Fosse's
remarks clear enough that I think they need no restatement, except to
say that his last note on the subject, like his first, displays
prejudices and stereotypes that are best discussed elsewhere.  I do
apologise for the angry tone of my last email to him, which was quite
inappropriate for this forum (but not for the content of its
arguments).
Regards,
Rohan.
