        What's new in release 3.7?
        Actually babel 3.7 is very much like the later releases of
        babel 3.6 (from 3.6k onwards). The concept of language
        attributes is new in this release. And support for a number of
        languages has been added. Here is a list of the changes since
        babel 3.6j:
[...]
        - Support for typesetting Sanskrit in transliteration will
          be made available in a later release of babel 3.7.
        - Support for typesetting Kannada, Devnagari and Tamil will
          be made available in a later release of babel 3.7.
        - Support for typesetting Greek has been enhaced. Code from
          the kdgreek package (suggested by the author) was added
          and \greeknumeral has been added.
        - A language attribute has been added to the \mark...
          commands in order to make sure that a greek header line comes
          out right on the last page before a language switch.
        - Support for typesetting Basque is now available thanks to
          Juan Aguirregabiria.
        - Support for typesetting Serbian with latin script is now
          available thanks to Dejan Muhamedagi'c and Jankovic
          Slobodan.
        - Support for typesetting Hebrew (and potential support for
          typesetting other rigth-to-left written languages) is now
          available thanks to Rama Porrat and Boris Lavva.
[...]
        - Support for typesetting Latin is now available, thanks to
          Krzysztof Konrad .Zelechowski.
        - The concept of language attributes is introduced. It is
          intended to be used for giving the user some control over the
          use of the features a language definition file provides. It's
          first uses are for the Greek language, where the user can select
          to use the \pi o\lambda\upsilon\tau o\nu\kappa\acute{o}
          (``Polutoniko'' or multiaccented) Greek way of typesetting
          texts, and for the Latin language where both modern and
          medieval Latin are supported.
          These attributes wil possibly find wider use in future
          releases.
Reinhard Zierke
for the CTAN team
