From ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK  Thu Mar  1 15:00:37 2001
From: ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK (Dominik Wujastyk)
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 01 15:00:37 +0000
Subject: Librarian position at the University of Illinois,              Urbana-Champaign--deadline extended (fwd)
Message-ID: <161227067851.23782.615309874169984068.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Wed, 28 Feb 2001 17:03:35 -0600
From: Hans Henrich Hock <hhhock at ux1.cso.uiuc.edu>
To: aiis at uchicago.edu, arm2 at email.psu.edu,
Subject: Librarian position at the University of Illinois,
             Urbana-Champaign--deadline extended

Dear Friends and Colleagues,

Would you please help us in publicizing the fact that the application
deadline for the position of South Asian and Middle Eastern Librarian at
the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign has been extended?  We are
naturally very keen on getting a good number of qualified applicants, so
that the eventually selected candidate will help complement our revived
and very active Program in South Asian and Middle Eastern Studies.  The
job description is given below.

Thanks very much for all your help and best wishes,

Hans Henrich Hock
Director, Program in South Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
website:  http://www.uiuc.edu/providers/psames




South Asian and Middle Eastern Studies Librarian
University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign


Position Available:
April 1, 2001.  A full time tenured or tenure-track faculty position.

Duties & Responsibilities:      Reporting to the Head of the Asian
Library, the South Asian and Middle Eastern Studies Librarian is
responsible for all aspects of collection management and development
for South Asia and Middle East, including selection of information
resources, storage and weeding decisions, faculty liaison, collection
interpretation, evaluation, budgetary management, and resource
sharing.  The librarian provides bibliographic and reference services
to faculty, students, and visiting scholars, performs original
cataloging and complex copy cataloging of Arabic and/or Indic
languages publications, supervises support staff, serves as liaison
with faculty and students for the Program in South Asian and Middle
Eastern Studies, and represents the University in the national
programs such as SAMP and MECAP.  In addition, as one of four
professional librarians in the Asian Library, the South Asian and
Middle Eastern Studies Librarian will be responsible for supervising
one Asian Library processing function (e.g. acquisitions, cataloging,
circulation), and will perform other responsibilities as assigned.

Environment:  The Asian Library is one of the six units within the
Area Studies Division of the University Library system.  It serves
the faculty and students of the Program in South Asian and Middle
Eastern Studies, the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures,
and the Center for East Asian and Pacific Studies, and members of the
local community, as well as visiting scholars from across the nation
and the world.  Staff consists of 4 FTE professional librarians and 6
FTE support staff and student assistants.  The Asian collection
contains over 330,000 volumes, of which 130,000 volumes are South
Asian and Middle Eastern language materials.  In addition to Indic,
Arabic, and Persian, the Asian Library includes an extensive
collection of Chinese, Japanese, and Korean language materials.

Qualifications:
Required: MLS from an ALA accredited library school or its
equivalent; strong English-language communication skills; linguistic
and subject expertise in Arabic and/or Indic languages as well as
knowledge and understanding of South Asia and/or Middle East culture,
and willingness to develop and supervise the area of
non-specialization; knowledge of or experience in reference and
collection development; cataloging experience, including experience
with LC classification, LCSH, LCRI, AACR2, MARC format and
familiarity with a bibliographic utility, preferably OCLC; knowledge
of library applications of computer technology and online databases
and electronic information; a strong commitment to excellence in
public service and the ability to work effectively in a culturally
diverse environment; demonstrated initiative, flexibility,
creativity, and the ability to handle multiple responsibilities;
evidence of research orientation and ability to meet university
requirements for promotion and tenure.  Preferred: Working knowledge
of Persian; evidence of an understanding of the publishing and book
trade industry in South Asia and/or the Middle East as well as
methods of acquiring materials; the ability to work effectively with
faculty, students, staff, and the community; excellent oral, written,
and interpersonal communication skills; supervisory experience;
experience in an academic or research library.  Desired:  Coursework
or advanced degree in South Asian and/or Middle Eastern studies or
related field of study; at least two years experience in a South
Asian and/or Middle Eastern studies library in the US.


Salary & Rank:
Salary is competitive, and is commensurate with experience and
credentials for appointment as Assistant or Associate Professor.
Librarians have faculty rank and must demonstrate excellence in
librarianship, research and university/professional/community service
in order to meet university standards for tenure and promotion.

Terms of Appointment:
Twelve month appointment; 24 work days vacation per year; 11 paid
holidays; 12 annual sick leave days (cumulative), plus an additional
13 days (non-cumulative) per year if necessary; health insurance,
requiring a small co-payment, is provided to employee (coverage for
dependents may be purchased); participation in State Universities
Retirement System is compulsory (includes several private options),
8% of staff member's salary is withheld and is tax exempt until
retirement); newly hired university employees are covered by the
Medicare portion of Social Security and are subject to its deduction.

Campus and Community:
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a comprehensive,
major public university (Research Level I) that is ranked among the
best in the country.  It provides undergraduate and graduate
education in more than 150 fields of study and conducts both
theoretical and applied research, and provides public service to the
state and the nation.  The University has an administrative,
academic, and support staff of over 12,000.  Many of the academic
units of the university are recognized for national leadership in
instruction and research.  Detailed information about the University
can be found on its web page, http://www.uiuc.edu. The UIUC Library
is the largest state university library and the third largest
academic library in the United States with a collection of more than
nine million volumes.  The Library employs approximately 100 library
faculty and 300 library staff.  The Library's web page is
http://www.library.uiuc.edu.  Urbana-Champaign, located about 150
miles south of Chicago, has a combined population of over 100,000
including a student population of over 36,000.  Champaign County is
home to more than 175,000 people and provides the advantages of a
rural setting with the cultural benefits of a major university and an
urbanized area; for more information see http://www.cuout.com.

Apply:
Send letter of application and complete resume with the names,
addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses (where available)
of three references to:  Cindy Kelly, Head, Library Human Resources,
University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign, 1408 West Gregory
Drive, Urbana, IL  61801.  Phone 217-333-8169.  E-mail
mokelly at uiuc.edu.  Electronic applications are acceptable initially,
but must be followed by a hard copy with signature.

Deadline:
In order to ensure maximum consideration, applications and
nominations should be received by
March 1, 2001--extended deadline:  16 March 2001.  The search will
remain open until an appointment is made.

THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS IS AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION/EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER




