From ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK  Tue Mar 13 09:38:30 2001
From: ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK (Dominik Wujastyk)
Date: Tue, 13 Mar 01 09:38:30 +0000
Subject: Buddhist Studies Position in Bangkok (fwd)
Message-ID: <161227068171.23782.9965685594770751352.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Tue, 13 Mar 2001 09:34:28 +0000
From: Ulrich Pagel <up1 at soas.ac.uk>

Ven. Adisai Pabasaro, Ph.D
International Program in Buddhist Studies
Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya University


Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya University?s
International Program in Buddhist Studies in Wat
Mahatat, Bangkok, Thailand, invites applications for
either a male or a female instructor of Buddhist
Studies specializing in Theravada Buddhism, but with a
general understanding of the issues in Mahayana
Studies would be  preferred.

Degree requirements:

Master Degree in Buddhist Studies from a West
European/North American/Australian/NZ university, with
a bilingual fluency in English.

Responsibilities:

Teaching the contents of various academic papers taken
from international Buddhist Studies, Religious
Studies, or Consciousness journals, which MCU has in
its library. As the student body is composed of
Bhikkhus and lay people from various Asian countries,
certain Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL)
techniques will need to be employed Chief among these
are speaking slowly, clear pronunciation and the
avoidance of using idiomatic speech. The basic method
for teaching academic papers would be putting them on
an overhead projector  and going through them
paragraph by paragraph, explaining and discussing the
author?s style, structure and methodologies used in
arriving at her or his conclusions. An example of
previous papers studied in this way have been
Hoffman's paper on the role of Saddha, Keown's paper
on Morality in the Visudhimagga, Gombrich?s paper on
Why Six Former Buddhas?, Karunadasa's paper on
Sassatavaada  and Ucchedavaada, Bucknell?s paper on
Dependent Origination. Aside from this direct style of
teaching the lecturer would be free to develop her or
his own ideas for lecture periods. Other duties would
be in assisting various  students to craft their
academic essays and dissertations. Furthermore,
assistance will be needed in modernizing MCU?s
Buddhist Studies library.

The appointment is for one year, beginning July, 2001,
and may be renewable. The contract would be for
lecturing 6 hours per week while providing 10 office
hours per week. In exchange, MCU will also provide
housing, health insurance, and research  assistants
/interpreters, for any research that the lecturer
might wish to undertake for her or his own personal
scholarship, as well as facilitating contacts within
Thai Buddhist society.

The Department will begin reviewing applications April
1st and will continue until the position is filled.
Send a letter of application, curriculum vitae,
graduate school transcript, and three references to:

     Ven. Adisai Pabasaro, Ph.D
     International Program in Buddhist Studies
     Mahachulalongkornrajavidyalaya University
     Wat Mahatat
     Bangkok, 10200
     Thailand


Direct inquiries to: phraadisai at yahoo.com.




