Text layers in the Gita
I don't think anybody on this list would argue against the significance of
attempts to see if there is an original version to be found, of identifying
any authentic first text, of analysing and interpreting it.
But-- in the case of the Gita, the Septuaginta and so many other
influential works, it may not have been any Urversions that had the immense
cultural impact, but the derivational packages into which they developed.
So I find it perfectly understandable if these derivational packages are
analysed in the shape and form in which they were presented and through
which they shaped and formed their audience.
Wouldn't you agree that literary texts can take on a momentum
far beyond the control of the authour. A particular shape may
be imposed (norming/denorming; ie attempts at canonization,
or interpolations, historic layers, or syntheses). A particular function
might be imposed, of which the author may not have dreamt, or a
particular interpretation --maybe quite alien to the original intent--,
to the point of unrecognizability. Ancillary texts (commentaries,
exegetic works, vitae of members of a tradition following this text, ...)
may start surrounding the text, antibody-like. The original cell may
get less and less visible. A larger picture emerges, or many larger pictures.
At this point, the text may have become many texts.
Isn't the Gita a text that took on just such a dynamism of its own.
And isn't it even itself an interpolation in another text.
I see no contradiction between studying these forms of the texts
and the reconstructed Urtext, as long as one is conscious of the fact that we
are dealing with very different animals.
On a different note, I believe that some of the matters with which the Gita
or other religious texts are concerned cannot be tackled purely with the
tools of logic, and will therefore never be totally harmonizable, no matter
whether an individual authour writes on them with black ink on white paper
in monitored real time, or whether the text is a historical amalgamation...
Sorry to Dominik for writing another rather long mail.
If it helps, please consider half of it devoid of meaning...
Yours,
Gunthard Mueller
gm at e-ternals.com
Martin Gansten wrote:
