SV: University and Church
Swaminathan Madhuresan [SMTP:smadhuresan at YAHOO.COM] skrev 17. mars 2001
17:15:
Thanks for the reference! Looks the sort of book I love, it is now on my
list of books to buy!
When this issue popped up, I assumed from the use of tenses in the original
email that the writer was referring to *modern* attitudes. However, it is
important to remember that we are dealing with at least three periods:
1. The 19th century. With a few exceptions, practically everything done at
that time is now obsolete or superceded. For Indological, political and a
number of other purposes, the 19th century is an intellectual museum where
the ideas are as outmoded as the horse taxi. (Of course, some 19th century
ideas have survived, but one should always check and see if the idea in
question is not simply an archaeological artifact before discussing it).
2. The first half of the 20th century. Much work done in Indology and on
other subjects is still valid (more or less), but beware of ideological
stuff.
3. The period since World War II. Here you will find a lot of relevant
material, and although some of it is becoming obsolete, most of the views
and analyses debated as valid subjects of discussion in the West is found
in this period.
The problem with India is not simply that things reach India late, but that
ancient, colonial Indology is presented to the Indian public as if there
had been no development. In fact, colonial Indology has been
instrumentalized in certain quarters for political reasons, and that partly
precludes serious information on modern Western Indology from being
communicated to the Indian public. In all political propaganda, things have
to be kept simple and repetitive. If you introduce nuances and
contradictory evidence, then the propaganda ceases to be effective. (People
start thinking instead of reacting). The situation is of course not
completely hopeless, but books and papers written and published in the West
will usually be out of reach for most Indians. The answer would be to
publish in India, and I believe more Western scholars are doing this now.
Best regards,
Lars Martin
Dr. art. Lars Martin Fosse
Haugerudvn. 76, Leil. 114,
0674 Oslo
Norway
Phone: +47 22 32 12 19
Mobile phone: +47 90 91 91 45
Fax 1:  +47 22 32 12 19
Fax 2:  +47 85 02 12 50 (InFax)
Email: lmfosse at online.no
