Nobel prize winner on Indian identity
That was a funny article by Prof Amartya Sen. I see that kind of stuff in
daily news papers in India, nothing 'nobel' quality in it.
The first point by Prof Amartya Sen was about "what India should be" under
the current constitution. I fully respect the constitution, and it is a
taboo to think about future. But unfortunately changes do happen, mostly for
economic reasons and everything is a cycle (Prof Sen as an economist should
know better than us). That is the reason why civilizations change hats from
anarchy to dictatorship to communism to democracy to capitalism to.
Afghanistan was a multi religious country and even today it has minorities,
then why is it an Islamic country now? Was'nt India an Islamic state under
Akbar? Was'nt Shivaji a Hindu raja as he called himself in the modern sense
of the word Hindu at least limited to the area ruled by him? Why this
denial?
Can I say that India was not a colonized state before 1857 because there
still some minor kings and queens who were holding out against the British?
Whoever said "mainly a Hindu country" did not use the word "exclusively".
Therefore that person was right! This is a non-issue. Does he Prof Sen imply
that the people he terms as Hindus were in "minority" in pre-muslim India?
Which are those two? I suppose he means "ethnic" and "belief" as I
understand from later wording. I like to see a hypothesis stated first and
proven next. Do I have to cull out the hypothesis from a proof?
Does he indirectly shows a disinterest in belief based method? If so, then
Hindus are ethnic and one should not count religious belief. That means
people living in India who think Rama as divine and also people who think
Allah (peace be to the world) as divine are both Hindus(!).. Can I say so?
Or does he mean that "believing in Rama's divinity" is not a worthy belief,
but believing in divinity of other religions is only a worthy belief?
Hai (mythical or historical but not divine) Ram!
So what is this "richness" of tradition "without" a belief about the
greatness of an object of worship or adoration?  Can I claim a "rich"
Sankaran tradition by saying Sankara was just an ordinary advaitist on the
street? Is a figure like "Rama" only great when he is mythical or historical
but not divine? I am confused!
Regards
Bhadraiah
Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com
