remarks on interpretation of scripture and Gita etc
Dear Indology Members:
- I just wanted to clarify my remarks on the "scientific" study of religion
that I made in response to one of Dr. Arun Gupta's postings.
- I think that Dr. Gupta raised an important issue in one of his previous
postings concerning the interpretation of texts. I have seen this issue come
up on other lists, yet it has never been adequately addressed on the lists
that I have subscribed to.
- People often question scholarly interpretations of religious ideas by
saying that a knowledge of Sanskrit etc. is not enough to qualify; in
addition, to be an expert, someone should also have a personal "experience"
of the doctrines talked about in the text.
- The usual response is that, as scholars, we should take an "objective" or
"dispassionate" stance, or, we should stay distant enough so as not to get
personally involved with our subject. It is only in this way that we can
assure biases from not creeping in and influencing our interpretations. In
addition, these types of biases are often attributed to followers of a
particular religion.
- However, I think that there is a middle ground between the extreme
scholarly distance of "objectivity" or "dispassion" and the extreme
"passion" of the type of theologian who puts forth theories in order to
justify his or her particular slant on things. In my opinion, this middle
ground is what we should strive for.
- I would disagree with Dr. Arun Gupta on one thing: I think that
"experience" may be too much to ask for. Also, experience is not very easily
verifiable. I would propose two slightly more easy-to-obtain-and-verify
criteria.
- a) Is the scholar also putting him or herself in the position of admitting
that they are "learning something" from the tradition in addition to just
"learning about" it? (The words in quotes come from my former late MA
advisor, Wilhelm Halbfass).
- b) Is the scholar in question willing to admit ignorance and even wonder
at the ideas expressed in these texts: i.e. step down a little in his/her
estimation of their own expertise on religious matters?
Sincerely,
Lynken Ghose
Get Your Private, Free E-mail from MSN Hotmail at http://www.hotmail.com.
