My dear friends:
I'm working in philological-critique research in one Document of Colonial Saltillo City. But, eventoungh I heard in how , supposedly It is and Indo- About India culture; logical- science or study, forum and read , some about one fanatical adherent in the fundamentalis scepticism and other superfluous postures ( Vid. The antiscientific and subjetive limititations of skcepticism in Historia de las doctrinas Filosoficas, por el Dr. Raul Gutierrez Saenz from UNAM, UI, UBM. Editorial Esfinge. Mexico. 1971,   I answer other time the
next lines. My more humbly request to all of your that are very
prominents and sages teachers. It to be more neutral in the words that we
are using in the study of the literature consider sacra by living religions.
And is very healthy and objective don't used corrosive, ambigue,
laberintine, and offensive words.( Tribal, mythology or idols, fictitious characters  whit historical personality in  the
hagiographical or protohistoric or traditional texts). Because
we are incursioning in nor friendly skys of hiperspace of feelings, subjetivism , using our own tittle degree to adroctinatitions in the sciences circles and we become easy
prize for the vaisnava-apolgetic fighters. If you want a exempla of this, I
could send to you outside of this list or  only if the chairman of this list
let me, I can send with anonimus or pseudonymous, an interesting paper. But
please read the next. But is necessary maintain in mind, don?t be offensive in the
name of to be ourselves so called racionalistics or cientifics and used
hypercritical language for Rama  and vedic history. For example is
very used  from Hindus authors, words like
mythology that means- mitos- untruth, int the greek root of the Spanish word
men-ti-ra, falsity, Sanskrit- mithya. Other example is when some traditional
believers said, "In this work I will be probing that such and such was a
historical personality", etc.. Because, Rama had been recognised for time
ago like historical fact. I can given to you one antologhy; but please observer  with open eyes. nor with the liver, this follow:
Horace H. Wilson, 1870: "Rama and Krishna, who appear to have been
originally real and historical characters,.." (1)
W.J. Wilkins: "In north India, He is, perhaps the Visnu incarnation more popular and in truth, Ramayana, the work when there is found the history ...it has the more beautiful legends in the Hindu sacred scriptures. Ramayana it is occupied very extensive in the history of life of Rama" ...There is confirmation uncommon, but real, that support the historic of hero (Rama)." (2)
E. Royston Pike in the authorised adaptation for Elsa Cecilia Frost Translation: "Rama. In the Hinduism, the septum avatara or incarnation of Visnu y he was the hero of the grant Epic poem Ramayana (the Gesta of Rama)..and relate all the biography...Vid. (3)
The Nobel Laureate and cientifical historian of life of Jesus, Albert Schweitzer: "Rama like Krishna, is a national deific hero and later consider as a manifestation of Visnu." (4)
