"invasion"?
What was discredited were claims that Harappan cities showed
unmistakeable archaeological evidence of violent destruction
presumably by invading Aryans (eg. unburied skeletons).  As you
rightly point out, that doesn't constitute positive evidence that
actual invasions did not occur.  The question is quite open (with
historical experience arguing that language transfer was almost
certainly partly mediated by migration, and that migration probably
involved at least some violent conflict).
As you might expect, this is an old question on the list.  See:
http://listserv.liv.ac.uk/cgi-shl/WA.EXE?A2=ind9409&L=indology&P=R1090
An interesting aspect of this question is the way that trends of
fashion within the discipline of archaeology have dovetailed with the
political desire in India to make ancient Indian civilisation
indigenous.  Archaeologists have been so eager to repudiate the
failings of earlier archaeologists, working mostly in Europe (who
tended to proclaim every new kind of pottery shard as evidence of a
new invading culture) that they have gone to the equally unreasonable
extreme of assuming that the absence of archaeological evidence
demonstrates the absence of invasions and migrations - despite the
numerous major migrations documented in the historical record which
have left little or no archaeological trace.
So "invasionist" is as much (and as unreasonably) a swear word to
archaeologists as it is to Hindu nationalists: even Colin Renfrew has
used the term in that sense.  There was a passage posted here --
http://listserv.liv.ac.uk/cgi-shl/WA.EXE?A2=ind9803&L=indology&P=R13296
archaeological or literary evidence for invasions during the period of
the Indus civilization's decline."
Perhaps remarks about the "discrediting" of invasions, rather than the
discrediting of the interpretation of the Harappan archaeological
record as a fairly clear case (like some layers of Troy) of a city
destroyed by invasion, reflect this "negative archaeological evidence"
fallacy.
L.S. Cousins wrote:
