From ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK  Wed Apr 18 10:26:12 2001
From: ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK (Dominik Wujastyk)
Date: Wed, 18 Apr 01 11:26:12 +0100
Subject: Thanks and further thoughts
Message-ID: <161227069423.23782.7881357075996145125.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Many thanks to the people who have said kind things about INDOLOGY.  I can
see that it has performed an interesting and unexpectedly varied function,
with academic, social, and personal aspects (I especially like the idea of
people starting the day with a coffee and INDOLOGY!).

I have, in fact, set up a small committee of fellow indologists who have
been kind enough to say they will help me with thinking through and
managing whatever comes next.

As about 200 of you already know, I am sending out daily batches of
invitations from the new indology @ yahoo list.  In about ten days, all
current members of INDOLOGY should have received such an invitation.  The
Yahoo list may end up being very good indeed; if everyone from INDOLOGY
joins, it will have the same membership as INDOLOGY at the moment; new
people can, of course, join.  At the moment, I am the sole moderator of
the Yahoo list, but it is my intention to play almost no role in managing
that forum, and it may be appropriate in the coming months to hand over
the role of moderator to one or more other colleagues.  (Please don't
write to me about this! :-)  The facilities offered by Yahoogroups are
very good; people can upload interesting files, hold polls to vote on
issues, and "chat" (by typing) with each other in real time.

It is likely, though not yet completely settled, that I shall start up a
new discussion list with a membership controlled by the committee, and
limited to working academic indologists, i.e., university-level academics
who do this stuff full time.  The various issues to do with this list are
currently being thought through by the committee and me, and we will make
some decisions in the coming weeks.

Once again, I would like to thank everyone for your responses and
comments.  I'm reading everything, and some of the more detailed
suggestions about future possibilities are getting discussed by the
new committee.

Best,
--
Dominik Wujastyk
Founder, INDOLOGY list.




