On S. Farmer, also on invasion
Just on the side--don't confuse the Minotaur myths with the
centaurs... The Minotaur myths seem to carry a form of
reflection of the cultural/political relationship between
the main carriers of the non-IE Minoan culture vis-?-vis the
partly IE pre-Mycenaean/Mycenaean culture(s) that were
fringe members of the Minoan ambitus, but later conquered
the Minoan sphere, leading to Mycenaean culture proper.
The saga of Theseus sailing to Crete to kill the Minotaur
in order to stop the yearly slaughter of ritual human victims
from Athens seems to carry a remembrence of the previous
subservience to Crete, and of the successful struggle to
shake it off.
The centaurs, like so many other features of Greek culture,
are, in my view, a remembrance of the arrival of the
horse people in Greece. If one wants to identify the arriving
horse people with Indo-Europeans, the centaur myths could
be a reaction to them on the part of the non-IE culture that
was confronted by them. It would have made its way into
what would become Greek mythology just like so many
other vestiges of non-IE Minoan culture, such as the animal
goddess, potnia theron, and a large section of the classical
Greek pantheon and the related sagas.
I have long felt that Greece and India seem to have a lot
in common in the way IE and non-IE cultures created something
third. The fact that Greek is an IE language with a relatively
small proportion of linguistic carry-overs from the
Minoan culture (the word for bath tub for example...) cannot
hide the fact that an enormous part of the religious aspects
of the post-Minoan Greek cultures are definitely non-IE
in origin, even when they carry IE names, like potnia theron.
Something new came into being, from two very
different cultures. Isn't this very similar to what seems
to have happened further east after the arrival of Indo-Europeans
in the Mitanni areas and then in India proper.
Already very early brahmanical culture seems to contain very
substantial non-IE components, and so do modern Indian forms of
religion, including the brahminical aspects--to an extraordinary
extent.
The fact that Vedic is nevertheless very much an IE language with
not too many non-IE intrusions yet is quite parallel to the Greek
situation after the arrival of Indo-Europeans there.
For me, the current verbal warfare around Aryan invasions etc.
seems an anachronistic absurdity--Indian culture contains irrevocably
IE and non-IE components, having created already thousands of years
ago something new, genuinely Indian from this coming-together.
Imagine some Greek pseudo-scholars writing invectives against
the HIT (Herakleidai Invasion Theory)... Hilarious!
We should not respond to such anachronisms with too much
attention other than maybe asking the people who keep coming
back with these strange sentiments to form their own list --
or political party...
On a personal note, I would like to add that this list could
do with a bit more "sine ira et studio". There have been
very unnecessary attacks on the persons of Steve Farmer and
Michael Witzel which where not just misguided, but also
totally unworthy of a scholarly list. They really threaten
the academic atmosphere which most of us enjoy. Maybe
we should ask Dominik to bring in some additional
discipline, or some of us, including myself, might prefer
to go off this list.
This list is for asking questions, finding answers together, and
for announcing scholarly news.
If you cannot contribute to any of these, or if you are writing
with personal anger or excitement, you should consider
quitting this list.
Sorry this is an outrageously long posting. I'll impose a few
days of silence upon myself...
Yours,
sine ira et studio,
Gunthard
Vanbakkam Vijayaraghavan wrote:
