[Fwd: Academic/Senior Academic Librarian - PVL #39367]
University of Wisconsin-Madison General Library System is currently
seeking applicants for the South/Southeast Asia bibliographer position.
Academic/Senior Academic Librarian - PVL #39367
University of Wisconsin-Madison General Library System
Academic/Senior Academic Librarian
South/Southeast Asian Librarian
PVL #39367
The University of Wisconsin-Madison is seeking applications for the
position of South/Southeast Asian Librarian, a 100% academic staff
appointment.  Benefits include 22 vacation days, sick leave, group
health
and life insurance and state retirement plan.  Minimum full-time salary
is
$38,882.
QUALIFICATIONS - Degree and Area of Specialization
REQUIRED:  MLS or significant library experience and an advanced degree
in
a field of South or Southeast Asian studies.  Strong commitment to
cooperative collection development among peer institutions.  Strong
commitment to collaborating with library staff in a rapidly changing
environment.  Strong commitment to service.  Good oral and written
communication skills.
PREFERRED:  Minimum of 1 year collection development experience.
Knowledge
of South or Southeast Asian book trade, current North American
collection
development and management practices, and teaching and research
trends.  Practical familiarity with the role of the Internet and digital
information in higher education.  Good reading knowledge of one or more
key
target area languages required and reading knowledge of French or Dutch
preferred.
PRINCIPLE DUTIES:  Assessing, selecting, and developing collections of
scholarly print and electronic resources from and about South and
Southeast
Asia.  Collaborating with technical services staff to provide access to
collections.  Assessing user needs and aligning collection policies and
user services with campus programs and priorities.  Designing and
implementing formal instructional programs, including, but not limited
to,
instructing students and faculty in the use of local and remote print
and
electronic resources.  Providing specialized reference services on a
routine basis.  Maintaining close contact with academic programs and
other
U.S. South and Southeast Asian library collections and libraries in the
target areas.
DEADLINE:  Applications must be received by Monday, April 30, 2001.
Send
letter of application, resume, and names, addresses, email addresses and
telephone numbers of three references to:  Sandra Guthrie, Personnel
Director, 365 Memorial Library, 728 State Street, Madison, WI 53706.
For
more information contact Sandra Guthrie at 608/262-8190.
Unless confidentiality is requested in writing, information regarding
the
names of applicants must be released upon request.  Finalists cannot be
guaranteed confidentiality.
UW-Madison is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer
