From giravani at JUNO.COM  Sun Apr 15 17:00:17 2001
From: giravani at JUNO.COM (Narayan R.Joshi)
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 01 18:00:17 +0100
Subject: Deutsch and Germans
Message-ID: <161227069265.23782.14192909976137573025.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

It was refreshing to know that the adjective "deutsch" is derived from
Germanic "thiuda"(people).What is the etymology of the word "German" when
it was used by Romans to the tribes pouring into Europe from Asia in the
first and second centuries AD? The search of literature on this subject
offers contradictory information.Among the most significant of these early
tribes were Chatti(ancestors of the modern Hessians), Treveri,Tungri,and
Alammani.Now some relate Chatti to Hatti or Hittites.It appears that the
label German was originally applied by Romans to the tribe Tungri but
according to the record of Caesar all 4 tribes were called collectively
Germani by Romans.There was another tribe by the name Cheruschi led by the
warrior chieftain and German folk hero, Hermann(Latin:Arminius).It appears
to me that the name German might be related to the tribal name Cheruschi.I
may be wrong.Because of the ancient linguistic connection, we have Indo-
Germanic languages.This connection is used sometimes to show that Germanic
tribes originated in Central Asia and moved gradually towards the east
European location over the period of thousand years from 1000 BCE to 1
AD.On the other hand people of the German city Trier (Treves) boast that
their city was founded centuries before Rome by Trebeta(REF-BOOK-"In
deutschen Landen" by Josef K.L.Bihl), the son of famous Assyrian king Ninus
(Biblical Nimrod). Semiramis was married to Nimrod, the founder of Babylon
(Genesis-10:8-10). Genesis 10:11 says that Asshur and his descendants went
out of Babylon(or out of land of Shinar)and constructed Assyrian capital,
Nineveh. The ancient kings of Assyria called themselves "Khatti-sars".
Could it mean "Kings of Hatti or kings of Kaldu, the Khaldian people? Is
the word "Goth" related to the "Guti" people from the ancient MIddle-east
history? What is the true story?
Now Biblical scholars have tendency to relate somehow all human races to
the descendants of Shem, Ham and Japheth(sons of flood famous Noah around
4050 BCE). According to Biblical scholars, the children of Shem were
Elam,Asshur,Arphaxad,Lud and Aram.It is said that Asshur,the son of Shem
was the father of the white racial strain(fair skin and lighter hair). It
is said that Abraham the Hebrew (about 2000 BCE) was begotten of the line
of Arphaxad, the third son of Shem. Are then Germans and Israelites(Hebrews)
descended from the common ancestor? What is also the origin of the
word "Prussia?" Is it related to the word Assyrian? Could the earlier
version of Asshur be Vasshur changing into Prussia(Grimm's rule)? At the
end of my inquiry I would like add a cautionary note.Efforts by some Indian
authors of connecting Assyrians to the Asuras of the ancient Indian books
based only on phonetic similitude were wrong.Connecting the ancient Germans
to Aryans was also wrong because it was attested several times that the
word "Aryan" makes sense if any only in the context of the ancient Iranian
and Indian people.Turkish and Mongolian tribes from the Central Asia were
not Aryans either.Irish were not Aryans either.Thanks.




