Death of Sanskrit
            My views on "the death of Sanskrit" are not determined by
whether I write to Indology on Yahoo or at Liverpool.  I think we are
confusing the term "language death" used by linguists with what happened to
Sanskrit in the 17th century.  If "loss of use as the first language" is
the criterion for language death, I would have no problem using this term
with reference to Sanskrit.  However, in that case, Sanskrit "as a first
language" died its death perhaps even before Panini, and certainly by
Patanjali's time.  I have myself argued for such a state of affairs and I
have no problem with that.  After that what we have is the rebirth and
survival of Sanskrit as a learned elite language of high culture.  As I
understand Sheldon's arguments, they don't deal with the first death of
Sanskrit as a first language, but with the second death, if I can call
that.  What is the death of a learned second language?  Sheldon is dealing
with the increasingly restrictive environment in which this learned second
language found itself.  There I do like his analysis, and agree with his
depiction.  However, in this role of being a learned, and now perhaps a
tertiary (rather than a second) language, Sanskrit continues to be used in
India in completely altered circumstances.  There is a tendency among
scholars to discount this late phase, in part because there are no good
English language sources on the Sanskrit literature produced in the last
hundred years or so, and because the Sanskrit reading materials in our
class-rooms exclusively deal with the classical phase.  However, there is
an immense Sanskrit production during the last two hundred years which is
basically unknown to modern western scholarship.  The five hundred pages of
S.B. Varnekar's History of Modern Sanskrit Literature (in Marathi), Ashok
Aklujkar's work on Appa Shastri Rashivadekar's contributions to emerging
Sanskrit monthly magazines (written in Sanskrit), annual Sanskrit debate
competitions at various Indian institutions in which Ashok and Vidyut
Aklujkar, I and so many others took part, annual Sanskrit drama
competitions held in places like Pune, Bombay, and Ujjain, all of this kind
of Sanskrit production cannot be simply discounted by marking the final
death of Sanskrit with Jagannaatha.  Post-Jagannaatha circumstances under
which Sanskrit continued to be used are indeed different.  They are
ever-more restrictive with the loss of status to Sanskrit as the language
of higher learning, and yet the works produced in Sanskrit, just since
independence in 1947, number to many hundred.  I would hope that the
investigation into the life and death of Sanskrit would seriously take into
account its current state of affairs.   Last time I was in Pune in 1999, I
attended the publication ceremony for Professor G.B. Palsule's epic length
Sanskrit work on Savarkar's life.  The entire function took place in
Sanskrit.  We need to account for this continued use of Sanskrit.  There
are some interesting linguistic studies of this modern Sanskrit.  In the
west, only Hans Hock had done some interesting work with modern spoken
Sanskrit.  One can find some fine linguistic analysis by Aralakatti in his
book on modern spoken Sanskrit.  If Sanskrit died a second death at the
time of Jagannaatha, it still has an on-going life after its second death,
distinctly different from its previous lives, and yet a life that needs a
serious academic investigation.  Around 1920s, a Marathi author N.C. Kelkar
published a series of essays titled "Revival of Sanskrit Studies" (in
Marathi:  Sa.msk.rta vidyece punar-ujjiivana) describing how Sanskrit
studies were enjoying a sort of revival under the newly emerging British
system of education in India during the last decades of the 19th century.
One of these days, I would like to translate these essays into English.
Varnekar's History of Modern Sanskrit Literature needs to be translated
into English as well.  Perhaps, Ashok can take up this project.
            The history of lives of Sanskrit may be like the Nine Lives of
Cats.  Reports of its final death may be premature.  Best,
Madhav Deshpande
<GthomGt at CS.COM> wrote:
