POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT
The following position announcement is being forwarded to your mailing
list or listserv from the ACADEMIC POSITIONS section of SARAI. The
direct url for this announcement is:
http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/data/indiv/southasia/cuvl/jobs/TRLN.html
Please contact the TRLN directly as indicated for any further
information.
David Magier
South Asian Studies Library Fellow
  Triangle Research Libraries Network (TRLN)
The Triangle South Asia Consortium (TSAC) is a Title VI National Resource
Center funded by the U.S. Department of Education and comprised of the
South Asia programs of Duke University, the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, North Carolina State University, and North Carolina Central
University.  The mission of TSAC is to promote the study of the South Asian
subcontinent and to coordinate research, teaching, and cultural programming
for South Asia across the consortium's constituent universities.  The
Triangle Research Libraries Network (TRLN) facilitates the implementation
of cooperative collection development and user services among TSAC
libraries to ensure the availability of resources for teaching and
research.
TRLN seeks an energetic individual with a strong subject and language
background in South Asian studies and an interest in working in research
libraries to participate in the creation of a new collaborative model for
collection development and public service.  Based at Duke University
Libraries, the position works closely with the newly defined TRLN South
Asia Librarian, who coordinates all library activities related to South
Asian studies in the four libraries. The South Asian Studies Library Fellow
will be appointed for a one-year period, with renewal possible for an
additional two years.  The position reports to the Head of the
International and Area Studies Department in Perkins Library at Duke
University.
Working closely with the TRLN South Asia Librarian and other librarians
throughout TRLN, the Fellow will gain hands-on knowledge of collection
development, acquisitions, cataloging and public services work.  The Fellow
will become familiar with the functioning of research libraries and will
work closely with faculty in TSAC to implement the new model.   The
principal goal is to build coordinated collections and provide outstanding
service to scholars and students locally as well as to remote users of
TRLN's South Asian resources.
QUALIFICATIONS
Required: Advanced degree in a field of South Asian studies with some
working experience in research libraries; ability to work effectively with
faculty, students, and library staff; knowledge of Hindi or Urdu; and
excellent oral and written communication skills in English.  Highly
desirable: knowledge of other South Asian vernacular languages.
Applications from persons who also have a degree in librarianship are also
encouraged.
SALARY AND BENEFITS
Salary and rank dependent on qualifications and experience; minimums are
$34,800 for Assistant Librarian; $37,300 for Senior Assistant Librarian;
$40,650 for Associate Librarian; $46,750 for Librarian.  Comprehensive
benefits package.
APPLICATION
Send cover letter, detailed resume, and the names, mailing and e-mail
addresses, and telephone numbers of three references to: Sharon A.
Sullivan, Director, Personnel Services, Perkins Library, Box 90194, Duke
University, Durham, NC 27708.  Review of applications will begin in
mid-September and continue until the position is filled.
Duke University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer.  The
Perkins Library System has a strong commitment to Affirmative Action and is
actively seeking to increase the racial and ethnic diversity of our staff.
