Kluge Fellowship Competition (Library of Congress)
Kluge Fellowship Competition
   Location: District of Columbia, United States
   Fellowship Deadline: 2001-09-30 (in 30 days)
   Date Submitted: 2001-08-30
   Announcement ID: 128315
   Library of Congress Kluge Fellows Competition
   Deadline for receipt of applications at the Library: September
30,
   2001
   Kluge Fellowships are for residential research in the collections
of
   the Library of Congress. Fellowships are for a period of from six
to
   twelve months with a stipend of $3,500 per month.
   Eligibility: Scholars who have received a terminal advanced
degree
   within the past seven years in the humanities, the social
sciences, or
   in a professional field such as architecture or law are eligible.
   Exceptions may be made for individuals without continuous
academic
   careers. Applicants may be U.S. citizens or foreign nationals.
   Applications: The application form and reference form may be
printed
   from the website www.loc.gov/kluge. Applications must include a
   three-page single-spaced research proposal, a two-page curriculum
   vitae indicating major prior scholarship, an indication of the
   collections at the Library of Congress that will be used for
research,
   and two letters of reference from individuals who know the quality
of
   the applicant's scholarshp. All application materials must be
written
   in English.
   Language certification: For applicants whose native language is
not
   English, there must be evidence that the applicant is fluent in
   English so as easily to conduct research, discuss work with
   colleagues, and make a public presentation, although the ultimate
   product of the research may be written in the applicant's native
   language. For English speakers who seek to do research in the
   Library's foreign language collections, there must be evidence
that
   they have a command of the relevant language or languages at the
level
   requisite for serious research.
   Awards: Up to 12 Kluge Fellowships will be awarded annually.
Awards
   are announced no later than March 15 of the following that in
which
   the application was submitted.
   For further information, contact the Office of Scholarly
Programs,
   Library of Congress at scholarly at loc.gov, telephone 202-707-3302
or
   fax 202-707-3595.
   Office of Scholarly Programs
   Library of Congress, LJ120
   101 Independence Ave., S.E.
   Washington, D.C. 20540-4860
   Email: scholarly at loc.gov
   Visit the Fellowship website at http://www.loc.gov/kluge
