Kavya in South India
Prof. Tieken's book is based on several premises that I simply cannot
understand.  With regard to some of his points, no one could quibble.  For
example, Indian scholars such as Swaminathaier have long accepted that poems
in the Purananuru were not always by the people who seem to speak the poem
(as the poems by Pari's daughters, or the poem where Auvaiyar pretends to be
a dancing woman).  What does this have to do with Tieken's claim that the
poems were a later forgery?  Nor can I understand how the repetition of
words has anything to do with this.  Tieken claims that contiguous poems
have more repetition than non-contiguous poems, a claim that is demonstrably
false.  But even if it were true, how would it prove that the poems were
forgeries?  Certainly an anthologist would tend to group similar poems
together -- and that is exactly what has been done in the Purananuru and, to
an extent, I believe, in the Kuruntokai.  The repetition of niikku/niinku at
the end of the Purananuru, for example, is because each of the poems in
which it occurs has the same subject matter (a dalit drummer comes to the
king's palace in the morning, stands outside, and sings of the king in order
to receive a gift from him).  Niikku, which means to "take off," to "make go
away", is used in all the poems in the same phrase: then he (the king) took
off my (low-caste drummer's) (dirty) garment.  With regards to the
repetition of grammatical elements, I have shown (and will post on my
website when I get a chance) that there is an identical repetition in
non-contiguous poems.  With regards to style, it is quite clear that the
poems are imitations by literate people of oral poems.  This is not a
"half-hearted compromise" -- it is the substance of a considerable part of
human literature.  The poems of the Sangam texts arise from a South Indian
folk tradition that also produced the Sattasai and that was taken up (in
parts) by Sanskrit.  Of course there are similarities.  What is so strange
about that?  I remain utterly mystified by Professor Tieken's claims that
Sangam literature is Kavya -- the two are utterly and completely different.
I should be very interested to see how Prof. Tieken accounts for the myriad
morphological and other forms in Sangam literature that do not appear later,
and for the later forms that do not occur in Sangam literature. I would only
ask him to consider that in order to demonstrate his thesis, he will have to
become familiar enough with Dravidian comparative linguistics to reconstruct
the proto-Dravidian (and proto-South-Dravidian) verb system, along with its
other other morphological and syntactic features. The two most eminent
living scholars of Dravidian linguistics -- Murray Emeneau and B. H.
Krishnamurthy -- have not ventured to do this, though I once did hear a
paper on the proto-Dravidian verb by the latter, which he labeled as
extremely tentative and dubious.  Frankly, I do not believe Professor Tieken
has the background or ability to carry out this task, which will require the
labor of many scholars, many volumes and many decades of intensive work.
What concerns me most is that Prof. Tieken's thesis will be accepted by
Sanskritists, who have no easy way of judging its validity.  If you are a
Sanskritist, please look at the following poem and consider whether it has
anything in common with Sanskrit kavya.  In doing so, note that it does not
have any Sanskrit words, uses a native Tamil meter, and that, unlike any
kavya, it is a report of personal experience.  Note also that (unlike in
later times) the names are pure Dravidian and that the categorization
(tiNai, tuRai) given the poems is entirely foreign to Sanskrit.  (You might
also question whether a literature of thousands of poems of such quality and
variety could be easily forged by one person).  Later Tamil, beginning with
Tiruttakkattevar in about the 8th century and continuing with Kampan in the
12th, is obviously influenced by Sanskrit kavya -- but surely this is not
true of Sangam literature.
Purananuru 245
Though it is so immense, does my grief none the less have
its limits, since it is not fierce enough to finish with my life?
On the salty earth all overgrown with sedge, on the burning ground,
my wife has gone her way to the other world, her bed
the shining fire of the pyre whose wood yields its glow
of blazing fuel! And I am
still alive! What kind of a place is this world?
The song of Ceeramaan KooTTampalatttut Tunciya Maakkootai when his [wife]
PerunkooppeNTu had died. TiNai: potuviyal.  TuRai: kaiyaRunilai.
George Hart
On 12/18/01 8:02 AM, "Tieken, H.J.H." <H.J.H.Tieken at LET.LEIDENUNIV.NL>
wrote:
