Muktabodha Graduate Seminar Announcement
Dear INDOLOGY Colleagues,
This is to bring your notice to the third in an annual series of summer
seminars for graduate students sponsored by the Muktabodha Indological
Research Institute. Please feel free to share it with any students you feel
might be interested.
The seminar is entitled "The TantrasAra of Abhinavagupta: Reading,
Translating, and Interpreting the Tantric Ideology of the Shaivism of
Kashmir" and will be taught by Professors Paul Muller-Ortega and Douglas
Brooks of the University of Rochester. Attention this year will be directed
to Chapters 7 through 11 of the text and will focus on Tantric notions of
space, time, cosmology and grace.
It will be held from June 26 through July 6, 2002. All expenses except
travel costs will be paid by the Institute.
The seminar will focus on the primary text, reviewing the arguments
presented in the Sanskrit original and comparing the limited but varied
translations.
Applicants should be graduate students currently in good standing with a
focus on South Asian religions and languages and/or a serious scholarly
interest in Hindu philosophy. Participants are required to have had at least
two years of Sanskrit language study or to have gained Sanskrit proficiency
at the intermediate level.
Last year's seminar included 22 graduate students. We expect to enroll a
similar number this year. Previous participants as well as students who have
not participated are encouraged to apply.
The seminar will be held at the Shree Muktananda Ashram, a lovely spiritual
retreat center in upstate New York (USA). In addition to their study and
discussion of the TantrasAra, participants will have the opportunity to
participate in the daily life of the ashram.
Applicants should write a one-page letter describing their intellectual
interests, academic background, and graduate course of study. Included in
this letter should be the name, phone number, and email address of at least
one reference who is willing to support the application. Applications should
be sent to:
Muktabodha Indological Research Institute
371 Brickman Road
Hurleyville, NY  12747-5313
The deadline for completed applications is March 1, 2002.
Thank you,
William K. Mahony
Professor of Religion, Davidson College
President, Muktabodha Indological Research Institute
