Bhaagavata-puraa.na commentary MS
Respected members of Indology,
We are trying to identify a MS in a collection here in Denmark.
The MS is incomplete, many of the folios are damaged and the
numbering of the folios is not altogether clear.  The abbreviated title
given is: "bhaa pa.m".  We have concluded that the text is a
commentary on (a part of?) the Bhaagavata-puraa.na.  However,
none of the commentaries on the BhP mentioned by Ludo Rocher
in his book about the Puraa.nas match the abbreviated title given
by the scribe.  The available folios all contain explanatory text and
glosses for stanzas in the following chapters of the BhP's tenth
book: 31, 32, and 33.  (The MS does not cite the stanzas, only
explain them and provide a gloss.)  These chapters all belong to
the Raasa-pa~ncaadhyaayii section of the BhP, and we are
suspecting that the text is a commentary on the Raasa-section
only and that the abbreviated title could mean something like
"bhaagavata pa~ncaadhyaayii".
We have compared the MS with the BhP commentaries of
Sridharasvamin, Sanaatana, Jiiva, Vi;svanaatha Cakravartin, and
Naaraaya.na Bha.t.ta, but have found no match.
I am hoping that someone will be able to help us identify the text.
Below I have included a small section taken from the MS, which
will hopefully be enough to identify it (if not I can provide more
excerpts).
Thank you very much.
Sincerely,
Toke Lindegaard Knudsen
The MS's commentary on BhP 10.32.1 begins:
(I am typing directly from the manuscript; I have put hard-to-read
characters in brackets.)
eva.m (sva)sya(sva)syagu.naruupamanosaarikiirtanaana.mtara.m
ki.m cakrur iti jij~naasu.m dar;sanaadaane
ki.mci(d)bhagavatikaa(.t)inyamaaropyamaa.na.mraajaata(.m)pratikv
aci(du.m)da.mtpra(cm)utamaci.mtayet ... (I am leaving out a small
section here) ... itiiti bho raajan / gopya.h
sukhara.m rurudu.h samyak ...
The commentary on 10.33.1 includes the following:
raasotsava iti / daasotsava.h taasaa.m madhye k.r.s.nena
saprav.rt(or: tt ?)a.h // ;sriiraadhaak.r.s.nayor utsava.h /
(So, Raadhaa is mentioned in the text and that may give a clue in
identifying it.)
