=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_Charon's_obols_in_Gandh=C4=81ra=3F?=
    Thanks to Drs. Lusthaus and Huntington for the useful replies.
    I was not aware of the *Liudu jijing* parallel, and that is very
interesting. My initial impression of Kum?ral?ta's work was that many of
his stories were original pieces of fiction, but in the process of going
through them I have come to realize that many must indeed be literary
reworkings of older stories (just not famous stories, so it seems). I would
say, however, that if he chose to keep this one element in the story, it
may have have resulted culturally familiar to him.
    In the course of the afternoon I did find a very relevant passage in
Stein (Innermost Asia, II, p. 646) on Byzantine and Sasanian coins from the
Ast?na cemetery in Turfan:
"Mashik claimed the distinction of having been the first to learn by
experience to look for coins of gold or silver placed in the mouths of the
dead, though his search was but rarely rewarded. That earlier pillagers had
not made the same discovery was proved by the fact that in none of the
tombs which we explored, and which Mashik stated that he had not himself
touched, had the skulls suffered the rude operaation by which he was wont
to ascertain whether they contained a coin.
The fact that out of the four coins actually found by us in the mouths of
Ast?na corpses three are Byzantine gold pieces or imitations of such pieces
(Ast. i. 3. 023 ; 5. o8 ; 6. 03) and one a Sasanian silver coin (Ast. v. 2.
02) might naturally predispose us to connect this practice with the ancient
Greek custom of placing a coin between the lips of the dead as the fare due
to Charon, the ferryman of Hades. But the reference with which M. Chavannes
kindly supplied me in 1916 to a Buddhist story in the Chinese Tripitaka
suggests that the custom was not unknown in the Far East also [4]"
    The note is a reference to Chavannes, Cinq cents contes et apologues
extraits du Tripi?aka chinois, I. p. 248, which is a translation of the
passage Dr. Lusthaus brought into the discussion. In what follows to what I
have quoted, Stein seems to be also a bit puzzled as to the western
connections of the practice. In any case the it is attested in Sasanian
Iran, and in all likelihood it is more closely connected with Sasanian
trade than with remote leftovers of Greek influence in Bactria. The
question remains, though, as to whether it is attested anywhere else in
ancient India or not.
    I will check Tusa's work, and thanks also for the fascinating account
of the Vietnamese funeral!
    namaskaromi,
    Diego
On Thu, Mar 22, 2018 at 3:10 PM, Dan Lusthaus <prajnapti at gmail.com> wrote:
