[INDOLOGY] Gender, Power, and Rape when Conducting Research
Dear Colleagues,
Regarding Professor Slaje?s  comments concerning conceptions of what constitutes rape in premodern India and in the legal codes of most modern countries,  it is of course true that different cultures have different notions of what constitutes consent and what the consequences of  forcible and other forms of non-consensual sex should be.
Nonetheless, Manusm?ti and other such texts aside there is, indeed,  unambiguous evidence that ancient India was fully aware of the concept of  forcible rape  as a crime deserving of punishment. In substantiation of this I would refer you to three quite unambiguous cases of rape narrated in the Uttarak???a of the V?lm?ki R?m?ya?a (critical edition). These are  found in sargas 26, 30, and 71?72 respectively.
In the first,  the r?k?asa king R?va?a, after being rebuffed in his effort to seduce the apsaras Rambh?,  seizes her violently and rapes her (pratig?hya bal?t . . .  maithun?yopacakrame). In her disheveled and terrified state she reports the rape to her lover, Nalak?vara, telling him explicitly that she had been violently sexually assaulted (bal?t . . . dhar?it?). After confirming the truth of her allegation through meditation (!) Nalak?vara curses R?va?a in a rage, so that he would die should he ever again have sex with a woman against her will. It is this curse that robs the r?k?asa of his desire for non consensual sex and, more importantly, serves to spare S?t? from being raped by him when he has her in captivity.
The second case is particularly interesting as it purports to provide an origin myth for the phenomenon of rape itself.  This is the poem?s second  account of the sexual encounter between Indra and Ahaly?, the wife of the sage Gautama. Unlike the first account in the B?lak???a, where Indra impersonates Gautama to seduce the apparently not unwilling Ahaly?, the Uttarak???a?s version involves an unambiguous rape. Angered that Ahaly?, the first truly beautiful woman created by Praj?pati, has been given by the Creator to the sage, the god goes to Gautama?s ashram and rapes Ahaly?.  She is twice described in the chapter as dhar?it?, raped. As punishment for this grievous crime (adharma? subalav?n) the sage curses Indra to suffer three consequences. The first is that he will be captured by his enemies (Indrajit). The second is that he will lose, in effect, tenure as permanent king of the gods.  The third is that, as Indra has, according to this account, actually established the phenomenon of rape among men and unleashed it upon the world, he will, from that time forward, suffer one half of the guilt of ever rape committed, the other half going to the perpetrator.   This version, like the one in the B?lak???a also includes an example ofthe familiar practice of blaming the victim as the innocent Ahaly?, regarded as unfaithful by her husband,  is cursed to remain invisible in her husband?s ashram (as in B?la) and also to lose her status as the world?s only beautiful person. 
The third and final case of rape reported in the Uttara, is that of the virgin Araj?, daughter of the sage U?anas K?vya. She is raped by the idiot king Da??a, a disciple of her father. When he attempts to seduce he, she urges him to duly request her hand from U?anas. Despite the girl?s warnings of the dire consequences, he seizes her and violently rapes her (maithun?yopacakrame) despite her efforts to resist (visphurant?m). When the sage returns and learns what has happened, he curses the king for committing such a heinous crime (p?pam ?d??a? ghoradar?anam). Da??a's punishment is far more severe than that suffered by R?va?a and Indra, U?anas? retribution is a form of collective punishment, destroying not only the perpetrator of the crime but his entire kingdom, which is reduced  by a mighty dust storm to a desolate wasteland. It becomes, in fact, the eponymous Da??ak?ra?ya  and the small, habitable area of the Janasth?na which figure so prominently in the R?m?yana?s narrative.  In this story, as in that of Ahaly?, the rape victim, too, is punished. She is similarly  confined to the ashram to engage in meditation. 
None of these episodes is written off as a normal seduction or sexual encounter and, particularly in the  case of the rape of the unmarried  Araj?, show no tendency to subject the victim to a marriage with their rapist. 
All three of these epilogic narratives serve to explain features of the earlier epic narrative, but they also demonstrate quite clearly, that the author or authors of the Uttarak???a, were fully aware of the phenomenon of forcible rape as a severe violation in much the way that we, in modernity, understand it. The Indra-Ahaly? episode, in fact, addresses rape as a  continuing social problem and as a crime that incurs guilt both for the rapist and the originator of the phenomenon. 
I must agree with Professor Slaje that the phenomenon of rape in early India deserves further investigation. For those interested in this I would suggest reading the recent introduction, translation and annotation of the Uttarak???a by my colleague, Dr. Sally Sutherland Goldman and myself (Princeton University Press 2017) and Dr. Sutherland Goldman?s  article now  in press:
"Against Their Will : Sexual Assault in the Uttarak???a? Studies in History 34(2) 1?18 ? 2018 Jawaharlal Nehru University. Delhi: SAGE Publications
sagepub.in/home.nav <http://sagepub.in/home.nav>
DOI: 10.1177/0257643018772405
http://journals.sagepub.com/home/sih <http://journals.sagepub.com/home/sih>
Best wishes to you all.
Dr. R. P.  Goldman
Catherine and William L. Magistretti Distinguished Professor in South and Southeast Asian Studies
Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies MC # 2540
The University of California at Berkeley
Berkeley, CA 94720-2540
Fax: 510-642-2409
