[INDOLOGY] Date of the Tolkappiyam
Based on the work I have done, the date of 9th century for the Classical Tamil texts is too late. 
At the Archaeology of Bhakti II: Royal Bhakti, Local Bhakti workshop-cum-conference, I presented two papers. One was entitled, ?On the War Instruments Mentioned in Periya Tirumo?i 2.9.9,? in which I dated the poem by Tiruma?kai ??v?r to 8th cerntury based on historical, epigraphical and philological considerations. The core problem was that  almost everyone had assumed that only one instrument was being mentionedin the verse. Actually, there were two instruments, a conch and a drum. Ka?uv?y was not describing the nature of the drum. It represented the name of the conch used in battle. The conch was most probably so named because blowing the conch produced a sound similar to the roar of a tiger.  The K?nd?r grant was simply rendering into Sanskrit the Tamil name Ka?uv?y. The presentation was well received and I was asked to submit it for the proceedings. However, I had also presented a paper on the Tamil P??ar as portrayed in hagiographic texts and inscriptions in which I pointed out that what the hagiographic texts had presented as the untouchability of the P??ar was fiction and was diametrically opposite to what the inscriptions and other historical data were showing. During the Q&A period after the talk, one Dr. Vijayavenugopal of EFEO went on a rant for so long that  the session moderator had to close the session and I did not have any time to respond to him! It showed how even persons working in institutions like EFEO treated hagiographies as history. As a result, since one could only submit one paper as part of the proceedings, I submitted the paper on the Tamil P??ar, which woud change the opinion that has been held by Tamil scholars for more than 800 years. If I had submitted the paper on Periya Tirumo?i 2.9.9, it would not have impacted the date of Classical Tamil texts since almost nobody other than Dr. Tieken subscribes to the 9th century date for those texts. So I have not published the paper on Periya Tirumo?i 2.9.9 anywhere yet.
To cut the long story short, if the Periya Tirumo?i is dated in the 8th century, the 9th century date for the Classical Tamil texts is impossible.
Regards,
Palaniappan
