From drdj at austin.utexas.edu  Thu May 24 16:27:44 2018
From: drdj at austin.utexas.edu (Donald R Davis)
Date: Thu, 24 May 18 16:27:44 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Tamil Language Lecturer
Message-ID: <646D6EA1-6B6D-473F-96B7-954D3CA6E485@austin.utexas.edu>

Dear Colleagues,

The University of Texas at Austin invites applications for a Tamil Language Lecturer. Please see the details below or at this link: https://apply.interfolio.com/50970.

Best,

Don Davis
Dept. of Asian Studies
University of Texas at Austin

Description
The Department of Asian Studies at the University of Texas at Austin is seeking a full-time lecturer in the Tamil language and either Kannada or Telugu, to begin September 1st, 2018.  The successful candidate will be responsible for teaching three courses per semester; Tamil at the Elementary and Intermediate levels, plus a third course in Kannada or Telugu.  Located at the flagship campus of the University of Texas System, the Department of Asian Studies provides an excellent and exciting context for teaching and research in the classical and modern languages of the South Asian region.

Qualifications
Candidates should have a minimum of a Master?s degree (Ph.D. is preferred) in the Tamil language with additional teaching ability in either Kannada or Telugu, or in a closely-related field (for example, in Dravidian Linguistics or South Indian Literature) and a record of teaching excellence in the American university context.  The successful candidate will be required to complete the Federal Employment Eligibility Verification form, I-9, and will be required to present acceptable and original documents to prove identity and authorization to work in the United States.  The University of Texas at Austin is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer committed to a diverse faculty, staff, and student body.  Women and minority candidates are strongly encouraged to apply.

Application Instructions
Interested candidates are invited to upload: 1) a cover letter detailing qualifications and teaching experience, 2) a detailed curriculum vitae, and 3) three confidential letters of recommendation.  The deadline for applications is Friday, June 15th, 2018.  Please direct all questions to Ms. Lucy Enniss (enniss.lucy at austin.utexas.edu) with the words ?Tamil search? in the subject line.


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20180524/c5a4b2da/attachment.htm>

