From glhart at berkeley.edu  Mon May  7 15:26:29 2018
From: glhart at berkeley.edu (George Hart)
Date: Mon, 07 May 18 11:26:29 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Date of the Tolkappiyam
In-Reply-To: <CAGCGLoBDV7WZGf9xu87k+SSaVNHeaDkKtfpaxQABOX3doUQUXQ@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <6CA66377-D0AA-4248-9920-2F6ACB7711E2@berkeley.edu>

It was my impression that, like many older Indian works (cf. the Vy?sa Mah?bh?rata, the Rig Veda, probably the N??ya??stra), the Tolk?ppiyam is a collection of things that may have been composed at different dates. Some parts may be quite early, some later, but I would be pretty surprised if anything in the work is as late as the 9th century. My opinion is that parts of the work may go back to (or mirror/be influenced by) things as early as the 1st century BCE (and conceivably even earlier) while other parts may be as late as the 3rd or even 4th century CE. Burnell's work relating the Tolk?ppiyam to the Sanskrit Aindra (On the Aindra School of Sanskrit Grammarians: Their Place in the Sanskrit, available on Google) is important. One might note that P??ini describes things that are earlier than the Sanskrit used when he composed his work ? I am not a vaiy?kara?ika, but I am sure people on this list can speak to this. The writers of grammars, whether in Sanskrit or Tamil, do not appear out of thin air. George

> On May 7, 2018, at 5:40 AM, Jan E.M. Houben via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
> 
> Dear Paniappan, 
> As an old student of Prof. Kamil Zvelebil and of his student Dr Saskia Kersenboom I am not convinced that his translation is wrong or outdated. 
> Moreover, even with his translation you can argue that the imperative is prescriptive for the first time. 
> In other words, his translation is here only cited as a "strawman" with the WISH to attribute a more ancient date to the Tolk?ppiyam.
> Since, however, the most generally accepted etymogy of  Tolk?ppiyam is "old K?vya" and since K?vya has a convincing etymology from the Vedic-Old Persian kav? this grammar was apparently composed or at least "named" after Sanskrit K?vya developed as a literary phenomenon. Which would match the datings proposed by Prof. Tieken in his recently reprinted study on this issue. 
> Best regards, 
> Jan Houben
> 
> 
> On 7 May 2018 at 00:52, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info <mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
> Responding to a query on the date of the Tolk?ppiyam, I obtained some pages in the 2nd edition of Early Tamil Epigraphy (ETE) by Iravatham Mahadevan published in 2014. In his first edition Mahadevan had said on p. 231, ?It is thus clear that this grammatical work must have been composed after the pu??i was invented and had become an integral part of Tamil writing. Judging from the available evidence of the earliest occurrence of the pu??i from about the end of the 1st century A.D., Tolk?ppiyam was composed most probably not earlier than the Late Tamil-Br?hm? Period (ca. 2nd-4th centuries A.D.)? Unfortunately, Mahadevan had not consulted a crucial article by Rajam Ramamurti of 1982 entitled, "The Relevance of the Term Mey, O??u, and Pu??i To the System of Tamil Morpho-phonemics" in International Journal of Dravidian Linguistics, 11 , no. 1, pp. 167-183. In this article, it is stated:
>  
