[INDOLOGY] Date of the Tolkappiyam
Dear Palaniappan,
The interpretation of the verbal noun nilaiyal as an imperative/optative is unnecessary. Compare this instances with uyirttalum (2 x) in E?uttatik?ram 1. 17. And the conclusion drawn from the imperative/optative is rather far-fetched.
Apart from that, the dates given to Tolk?ppiya? are anyhow much too early, so the pul?l?i discussion is not relevant. I cannot keep myself from quoting Eva Wilden on the dating of Ca?kam poetry, and with that of Tolk?ppiyam:
"The coincidence between the start of the literary tradition and the beginning of the Christian era must be regarded as a mere "date of convenience". To this day no hard facts establishing a connection between the inner, literary and the outer, historical sequence have been convincingly shown to exist. Nothing that is of relevance to the following argument can be regarded as securely dated[,] before the P???iya inscriptions of the 9th century"
So finally she agrees with me (however, without any reference to my book and subsequent articles). We differ, however, on what should be done next. I have tried ? and am still trying ? to find points in history relevant for the dating of Ca?kam poetry (the P???iya inscriptions mentioned just now), while Wilden proceeds as if nothing has happened, placing the Ku?untokai and a few other presumably early collections in the 1st to 3rd centuries (Manuscript, Print and Memory. Relics of the Ca?kam in Tamilnadu. Berlin, 2014, pp. 7-8.).
I seem to be  living in another world than most Tamil scholars, but definitely a more exciting one..
Herman
Herman Tieken
Stationsweg 58
2515 BP Den Haag
The Netherlands
00 31 (0)70 2208127
website: hermantieken.com<http://hermantieken.com/>
Van: INDOLOGY [indology-bounces at list.indology.info] namens Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan via INDOLOGY [indology at list.indology.info]
Verzonden: maandag 7 mei 2018 0:52
Aan: indology at list.indology.info
Onderwerp: [INDOLOGY] Date of the Tolkappiyam
Responding to a query on the date of the Tolk?ppiyam, I obtained some pages in the 2nd edition of Early Tamil Epigraphy (ETE) by Iravatham Mahadevan published in 2014. In his first edition Mahadevan had said on p. 231, ?It is thus clear that this grammatical work must have been composed after the pu??i was invented and had become an integral part of Tamil writing. Judging from the available evidence of the earliest occurrence of the pu??i from about the end of the 1st century A.D., Tolk?ppiyam was composed most probably not earlier than the Late Tamil-Br?hm? Period (ca. 2nd-4th centuries A.D.)? Unfortunately, Mahadevan had not consulted a crucial article by Rajam Ramamurti of 1982 entitled, "The Relevance of the Term Mey, O??u, and Pu??i To the System of Tamil Morpho-phonemics" in International Journal of Dravidian Linguistics, 11 , no. 1, pp. 167-183. In this article, it is stated:
