[INDOLOGY] Accuracy in translations
Sincere thanks to Dan, Jonathan, and Matthew, for very helpful comments and
corrections to my post (Dan Lusthaus? reply to the list inadvertently went
only to me, so it is given below). One of the great values of this forum is
that posts like mine can get quick feedback from experts in the field. This
can save a person from veering too far off the path of accuracy in thought
and speech on a given subject.
Since the subject is no longer ?Brackets in modern Sanskrit translations,?
I have changed the heading to ?Accuracy in translations.?
Thank you, Dan, for providing a better perspective on the Chinese
translations of the Buddhist canon. My brief generalizations did not do
them justice. Yes, as you and Jonathan both pointed out, one cannot really
say that Buddhism did not flourish in China. More Buddhists rely on Chinese
translations than on Tibetan translations. By my rather poor choice of the
term ?flourish? I intended the vigorous interaction between the various
schools of thought seen in Tibetan Buddhism and the consequent growth and
development (?flourish? in that sense) of these schools of thought up to
the present. This is in contrast to D. T. Suzuki?s observation made in
1898: ?. . . in China where Buddhism is at present in a comatose state?
(?Notes on the M?dhyamika Philosophy,? *Journal of the Buddhist Text and
Anthropological Society*, vol. 6, part 3, p. 20).
Your example of the one Tibetan word 'dus pa translating both Sanskrit
words sam?ha and sa?cita, thereby obscuring the view that there are three
items rather than two, well illustrates an important fact about the Tibetan
translations. Since Tibetan has a considerably smaller vocabulary than
Sanskrit, a single Tibetan word must often do duty for translating two or
more Sanskrit words. This indeed causes loss of precision and resultant
inaccuracy, and explains the other example you gave of the Tibetan word
?don? translating several Sanskrit words.
I appreciate your comments on the ?myth of the alleged disparity between
the Chinese and Tibetan translations,? i.e., the latter being ?more literal
or accurate.? What has contributed to this myth (if it is one), are the
many introductions to editions and translations of Sanskrit texts where the
editors or translators say that the Tibetan translations were of
indispensable help, while the Chinese translations were of more limited
help. A single example will suffice, this from Gadjin Nagao?s *Index to the
Mah?y?na-s?tr?la?k?ra *(Part Two: Tibetan-Sanskrit & Chinese-Sanskrit, pp.
v-vi): ?As is generally known, Tibetan translations coincide very well with
Sanskrit originals. This is the case with our text. . . . On the contrary,
the case is quite different with the Chinese version. First, in our Chinese
text, we have many expressions which convey only the *meaning *but not
the *word-form.
*For example, . . . These are by no means literal translations. The reader
is, therefore, requested to be cautious of these *equivalents *and is
requested to go back to the original text to understand them in their
respective context.?
Thank you, Jonathan and Matthew, for pointing out that my use of the word
?literary? for the Chinese translations, in contrast to literal for the
Tibetan translations, was ?incautious? (Jonathan), a ?red herring?
(Matthew). I gratefully accept this corrective. My use of literary versus
literal was indeed far too simplistic, the use of ?literary? being simply
inaccurate.  What I intended by it was something along the lines of ?less
literal.? The Chinese translators were free to try to find an equivalent
that well expressed the meaning in a given context, while the Tibetan
translators were often constrained to use a standardized translation term,
whether or not it well expressed the meaning in a given context.
I will try to refine my model to bring it within the bounds of accuracy.
Even with all the examples cited in the replies (thanks also to James), of
Chinese translations being in many cases literal, and of Tibetan
translations being in many cases not literal, I think that valid
generalizations can be made. When we have a large number of translations,
the entire Buddhist canon, the sample is large enough to allow for
reasonably accurate conclusions. I believe it is true to say that the
Tibetan translations, in general, are significantly more literally accurate
than the Chinese translations. I do think that this had a profound impact
on the development of Buddhism in Tibet and in China, respectively.
I hope that this rather long post has clarified why I think that Buddhism
has developed more vigorously in Tibet than in China. Suzuki?s comment
about Buddhism being comatose in China was made before Mao and Communism. I
regard the cumulative evidence of editors and translators of Sanskrit texts
to have generated a reasonably accurate picture of the differences between
the Tibetan translations and the Chinese translations, in general. That is,
that the Tibetan translations are more literal, and that the Chinese
translations are less literal, in general, with an important feature of the
Tibetan translations being the standardized translation of technical terms.
The consistently same translation of technical terms throughout the Tibetan
Buddhist canon would have provided a more stable basis for the various
schools of thought to build upon.
With thanks and best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Mon, Jun 4, 2018 at 8:56 PM, Dan Lusthaus <prajnapti at gmail.com> wrote:
