[INDOLOGY] Accuracy in translations
Dear Dan,
Among the additional observations you have provided, I thought your last
paragraph was especially relevant for providing a proper perspective on the
Tibetan translations of Sanskrit texts.
First, it is only fair to say that I am unable to regard as a myth the idea
that the Tibetan translations are more literal than the Chinese
translations, and to concisely state the reasons why. In my attempt to
gather all printed editions of Sanskrit Buddhist texts I have usually read
the introductions. These, when they spoke of the Tibetan and Chinese
translations, uniformly spoke of the Tibetan translations as being more
literal than the Chinese translations. I do not recall a single exception.
This is equally true of introductions to English translations of Sanskrit
Buddhist texts. Additionally, the many critical reviews by J. W. de Jong
and others said the same. My own forays into the Tibetan canonical texts in
comparison with the Sanskrit texts had also impressed me with their
literalness. More often than not they even followed the Sanskrit word
order, only moving the verb to the end when it was not already there, such
as in Sanskrit verse. The two examples I cited from Gadjin Nagao are
particularly instructive, not only because his wide familiarity with
Buddhist texts is undoubted, but also because they are from word-indexes
that obviously took full and careful account of the words in the texts.
Thus, I cannot regard the idea that the Tibetan translations are more
literal than the Chinese translations as a myth.
Your last paragraph points to what can well be regarded as a myth: the idea
that the Tibetan translations are so accurate that nothing else is needed,
and hence they can be accurately translated without reference to the
Sanskrit. I, too, have been disappointed in the quality of the many
translations made only from the Tibetan translations, when Sanskrit
editions exist. Why would a translator purposely choose to translate a
translation when an original is available? Leaving aside the many cases
where we no longer have the Sanskrit, the rationale for translating a
Tibetan translation rather than the Sanskrit is the transmission lineage.
There is a widespread belief that a text cannot be properly understood
unless there is an unbroken lineage of transmission of the text from the
time it was written up to the present. The Tibetans have retained the
transmission lineages for their translations, while the transmission
lineages have been lost for the Sanskrit texts when these fell out of use
in India. So we have the strange situation that the Tibetans highly respect
the Sanskrit texts as their sourceworks, but do not wish to use them.
As a personal aside, of little or no relevance to this discussion, Xuanzang
is one of my heroes. I have the greatest respect for his incredible journey
to India in search of Sanskrit texts to bring back to China. Then back
there, he translated more Sanskrit texts than anyone has ever done in known
history. As ? <https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%C3%89>tienne Lamotte wrote:
?Hs?an-tsang, who spent the last nineteen years of his life translating
some 75 S?tras and ??stras, was the greatest expert in Buddhist literature
of all time.? (*The Teaching of Vimalak?rti*, 1976, p. xxxv)
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Fri, Jun 8, 2018 at 11:33 AM, Dan Lusthaus <prajnapti at gmail.com> wrote:
