It's true there are logical flaws in Samkhya karika which has been aptly pointed out by the AdwaityaVadins in BrahmaSutras.However Purusha in Samkhya is indeed the Atmana,or the Emancipated Alone.....and Atmana is always all -pervasive, irrespective of space and time .
Alakendu Das.
Sent from RediffmailNG on Android
Sent: Mon, 18 Jun 2018 03:12:07 GMT+0530
[INDOLOGY] all-pervasive puru?a in classical S??khya
Dear colleagues,
I have &nbsp;a small group of students interested in the S??khyak?rik? and we have a seminar where we interpret this text with the help of classical (pre-Kaumud?) commentaries (mainly Yuktid?pik?). When reading SK 10, we encountered a problem which I could not answer.
SK 10 defines vyakta and says that avyakta has opposite characteristics. One of these characteristics is non-pervasiveness (avy?pi? vyaktam vipar?tam avyaktam). Almost all commentaries are clear and say that vyakta is not all-pervasive, but avyakta and puru?a are.
Gau?ap?da:
avy?pi ?&nbsp;asarvagam ity artha? / yath? pradh?napuru?au sarvagatau naiva? vyaktam /
M??harav?tti is almost the same.
Param?rtha: 
pradh?napuru?au sarvatra p?thivy?m antarik?e divi ca vy?pnuta? / mahad?di k?ryantu na tath? / asarvagamatatv?t, tasm?t prak?tivibhinnam /
S??khyav?tti: 
avy?pi ?&nbsp;na vy?pi mahad?di li?gam asarvagatam ity artha? / yath? pradh?napuru?au divi bhuvi c?ntarik?e ca vartete [tath?] tanmahad?di li?ga? na vartante / ki?c?nyat avy?pi vyaktam asarvagatatv?t / vy?pi pradh?nam, kasm?t, sarvagatatv?t /
S??khyasaptativ?tti is similar.
Yuktid?pik? is unfortunately missing for this passage, but I think that in other part (ad SK 19 on puru?a?s akart?bh?va) it also subscribes to the concept that puru?a is all-pervasive. It says that since pradh?na is all-pervasive and creative, all-pervasive puru?a should be also creative. This possibility is of course denied (vibhutv?d iti cet / sy?d etat / yath? vibhutve sati pradh?nasya sakriyatvam eva? puru?asya sati vibhutve sakriyatvena bhavitavyam iti / tac ca naivam / Wezler-Motegi, p. 180).
Now, Jayama?gal? says this:
avy?pi vyaktam, vy?py avyaktam / puru?o'pi vy?p? yad? prak?ty? mukta? / yukta? cet vyaktena sad??o &nbsp;na pradh?nena / hi sarvad? dev?di?u pravartate /
This is surprising. According to this commentary, puru?a is all-pervasive only when liberated, otherwise he is not all-pervasive and in this sense similar to vyakta. I cannot answer the question of my students how could puru?a (who is absolutely passive etc.) change itself so dramatically? And where does this concept occur in classical S??khya? Could you please help me with these answers? I am not a specialist in S??khya, we have this seminar just for fun, so I probably missed something in S??khya teaching on puru?a. I promised to my students that I will ask this learned forum to get the right answers.
Many thanks
With best regards
Lubomir
Lubom?r Ondra?ka
Department of Philosophy &amp; Religious Studies
Faculty of Arts, Charles University
Nam. J. Palacha 2, Praha 1, 116 38
CZECH REPUBLIC
e-mail: ondracka at ff.cuni.cz
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
