[INDOLOGY] Brackets in modern sanskrit translations
I have seen brackets used for lots of different things:
1. elements of meaning that are *presupposed* by the Sanskrit expression
and wouldn't otherwise make sense to English readers, e.g. "contact [with
the sense-faculties]" for sa?nikar?a. "Contact" on its own won't convey a
specific enough meaning, unless the phrase "contact with the
sense-faculties" has been used in the same context. There are three types
of presupposition, as far as I can see:
 - 1a. lexical (sa?nikar?a- basically means indriyasa?nikar?a-)
 - 1b. syntactic (a word syntactically requires another word that is not
expressed, e.g., the agent/patient of an absolute participle)
 - 1c. pragmatic (if "Manu" has been mentioned four verses previously, and
the word smr?ti shows up, we can assume it's Manu's); most cases of
anaphoric parentheses (where the scholar replaces an "it" or a "that" with
its antecedent in parentheses) fall into this category.
2. elements of meaning that the Sanskrit language just does not encode in
the same way as European languages, e.g., instances where no agent is
expressed in the Sanskrit, but English either requires or prefers one.
 - 2a. brackets are often used to introduce specificity or individuation
that Sanskrit doesn't generally express, hence "their [own]," "every
[individual] word," etc.
3. expansions of a thought that has been expressed in an extremely
compressed way (e.g., a comparison is made between two things, but the
common property is omitted); cases of parenthetical paraphrase probably
fall into this category as well.
4. discursive and pragmatic shifts that are conventionalized in certain
genres (e.g., rendering nanu as "[One might object as follows:]")
5. bitextuality (the parentheses offer an alternative set of meanings for
the same text)
Others can probably add to this list. Case (3) is probably what Alex has in
mind, where texts like the ?l?kav?rttika or Pram??av?rttika just seem like
nonsense without such expansions, although my guess is that many such
expansions probably do "follow straightforwardly from the Sanskrit," and
probably belong more to case (1) or (2) than to case (3). Sanskrit drops
subject and object arguments all the time, and if we're not totally certain
of what the implicit argument is, we might as well be honest about it. But
whether that honesty has to involve parentheses is another question. The
use of parentheses for case (3) is completely arbitrary, in the sense that
one could use "speakers," or marginal notes, or some similar contrivance
(ditto for 5). In case (2), which is on reflection pretty similar to case
(1), I don't quite understand why parentheses are used for some cases of an
English element of meaning being merely "implicit" in the Sanskrit (e.g.,
particularity, contrast, sequence) and not others (e.g., definiteness or
indefiniteness), and overuse of these kinds of parentheses creates the
impression that one is reading first-year Sanskrit exams.
Most of the specific examples that have come up in this discussion don't
seem to require parentheses at all. I wonder if Professor Bronkhorst, for
instance, would have been happier if Cowell and Gough had simply omitted
"by us" than if they had put it in brackets. By the way, Indologists are
not the only people on earth to appreciate that texts are difficult,
subtle, allusive, that they have multiple interpretations, etc. But we do
seem to be the only people who communicate our knowledge and appreciation
of these facts by this particular typographic tick.
2018-06-06 0:33 GMT+02:00 Herman Tull via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info>:
