[INDOLOGY] Sanskrit grammatical terms
Dear all,
It is worth keeping in mind that (an)at/(an)adanta etc. are entirely formal
in P??ini's grammar and have been rightly translated as "that which ends
(or does not end) in shot a." What specifically ends (or does not end) in
short a must be ascertained from the larger context of the s?tra. For
example,  P. 7.1.5 ?tmanepade?v anata? prescribes that at (and not ant) be
substituted for jh in jha, the suffix for the 3rd person plural ?tm. (or
1st person if we wish to be P??inian) given in P. 3.4.78. anata?, "of that
which does not end in short a," modifies a?ga, "stem," (not specified to
either a verbal or a nominal form), which is continued from P. 6.4.1
a?gasya. This is how P??ini formulates a rule that one might give to
students as: in the non-thematic verbal classes, there is no n in the 3rd
person pl. ?tm., as apposed to labhante, padyante, etc. of the thematic
classes.  But P??ini's rule extends beyond the present tense stems and in
fact should not be strictly associated with anything other than "that which
does not end in short a" because it is by this same rule that aorist forms
are distinguished as well: adik?anta vs. ane?ata, etc. If we wish to use
thematic and non-thematic as a sort of  equivalent for P??inian
(an)at/(an)adanta, then it is crucial to include all places in the verbal
paradigm where being (an)adanta comes into play.   On the other hand, just
a few s?tras later, at is used in reference to a nominal form in P. 7.1.9
ato bhisa ais, in which case at (= adanta) again modifies a?ga but one that
is now nominal. The rule prescribes the substitution of ais for bhis, the
latter of which is the basic ending for the instrumental plural (t?t?y?
vibhakti), hence devai? and not devabhi?*. In any case, at/adanta is
neither restricted to nominal or verbal forms nor the present stem.
I find Abhyankar's entry on adanta somewhat misleading, as least as quoted,
and not terribly informative of how (an)at/(an)adanta is used in in the
A???dhy?y?. The business about "roots of the tenth conjugation which are
given with the letter a at their end which is not looked upon as mute
(it)..." is a bit recherch? and refers to a list of roots in the cur?di
ga?a of the P??inian dh?tup??ha. In Liebich's edition it begins on p. 190
with the head adant?? ita ? ga??nt?d ...  The reason, I believe, that he
gives slightly obscure references is that he was looking for specific
instances of adanta in the A???dhy?y? and not at, which, however, is
usually to be understood as adanta. The opening sentence of his entry,
nonetheless, repeats more or less the translation that has already been
said: "ending with the short vowel a".
All systems of grammar are fictional, and in teaching Sanskrit or whatever
language, the terminology and categories that make the most sense in a
specific context should be used. Comparison of preexisting systems, such as
that of P??ini (we should also recall that there are other systems with
different terminology and different definitions for the same P??inian
terms), should only be undertaken once the object of comparison is well
understood and beginning Sanskrit is usually not the place to begin such a
comparison. I do, however, support familiarization with P??inian
terminology but as it is defined by P??ini himself, not in reference to
Latinate terms.
All the Best,
Victor
On Wed, Jun 20, 2018 at 7:08 AM Chlodwig H Werba via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
