I do not know of a glossary of ?food? grains, but there are several encyclopedias of Indian plants, especially medicinal plants, which also contains most of the grains and plants that are eaten.
C. P. Khare, Indian Medicinal Plants: An Illustrated Dictionary. Springer.2007.
Indian Medicinal Plants. 5 vols. Orient Longman, 1994.
Indian Medicinal Plants. Ed. K. R. Kirtikar and B.D. Basu. 11 volumes. Oriental Enterprises. 2001.
Maria Vittoria Macri, Lexicon Phytonimicum. Torino: CESMEO, 1988. Only vol. 1 published going from a to au.
K. M. Nadkarni. Indian Materia Medica. 2 cols. Bombay: Popular Prakashan, 1976 (originally published in 1908).
Patrick Olivelle
On Jul 4, 2018, at 8:45 AM, rrocher via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
The most knowledgeable person I know on Sanskrit, Prakrit, and Tamil cookbooks is Andrea Gutierrez, a PhD candidate at the University of Texas at Austin.  You should be able to find her email address on the UTA website.
Best wishes,
Rosane Rocher
On 7/4/18 9:14 AM, Martin Gansten via INDOLOGY wrote:
Is there such a thing as a specialized Sanskrit glossary for different food products, particularly grains and pulses? If such resources exist, I'd be very grateful if anyone could point me in the right direction.
Also, does the term mudr? in the sense of 'fried grain' actually occur outside of Tantric contexts, for instance in cookbooks?
Martin Gansten
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info<mailto:indology-owner at list.indology.info> (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info<http://listinfo.indology.info/> (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
