[INDOLOGY] Fwd: Auto-discard notification
Cc:
Bcc:
NEW BOOK> A Yog?c?ra Buddhist Theory of Metaphor, by Roy Tzohar
Dear All,
My apologies for cross-posting. I would like to announce the publication of
my new book, A Yog?c?ra Buddhist Theory of Metaphor by Oxford University
Press. The book is available in hardcover and electronic formats. it can be
ordered from Amazon but it is cheaper on OUP website.
https://global.oup.com/academic/product/a-yogcra-buddhist-theory-of-metaphor-9780190664398...
<https://global.oup.com/academic/product/a-yogcra-buddhist-theory-of-metaphor-9780190664398?cc=jp&lang=en&#>
The description on the back matter reads as follows:
Buddhist philosophy is fundamentally ambivalent toward language. Language
is paradoxically seen as both obstructive and necessary for liberation. In
this book, Roy Tzohar delves into the ingenious response to this tension
from the Yog?c?ra school of Indian Buddhism: that all language-use is
metaphorical. Exploring the profound implications of this claim, Tzohar
makes the case for viewing the Yog?c?ra account as a full-fledged theory of
meaning, one that is not merely linguistic, but also applicable both in the
world as well as in texts.
Despite the overwhelming visibility of figurative language in Buddhist
philosophical texts, this is the first sustained and systematic attempt to
present an indigenous Buddhist theory of metaphor. By grounding the
Yog?c?ra pan-metaphorical claim in a broader intellectual context, of both
Buddhist and non-Buddhist schools, the book uncovers an intense
philosophical conversation about metaphor and language that reaches across
sectarian lines. Tzohar's analysis radically reframes the Yog?c?ra
controversy with the Madhyamaka school of philosophy, sheds light on the
Yog?c?ra application of particular metaphors, and explicates the school's
unique understanding of experience.
Table of Contents
Introduction
1. What do Buddhists have to say on figurative language?
2. A bit of methodology: on determining the relevant textual field and
handling intertextual-borrowing.
3. An Outline
PART 1
Chapter I
Metaphor as Absence: The case of the Early Nyaya and Mimamsa.
Chapter II
Metaphor as Perceptual Illusion: Figurative Meaning in Bhartrhari's
Vakyapadiya
PART 2
Chapter III
It's a Bear... No, It's a Man... No, it's a Metaphor!
Asanga on the Proliferation of Figures
Chapter IV
The Seeds of the Pan-Figurative View: Metaphor in Other Buddhist Sources
PART 3
Chapter V
What It All Comes Down To: Sthiramati's Pan-Metaphorical Claim and Its
Implications
Chapter VI
Conversing With a Buddha: The Yogacara Conception of Linguistic and
Perceptual Meaning
as a Means for Overcoming Incommensurability
Conclusion:
The Alterity of Metaphor
Appendix A:
Translation and exposition of Vakyapadiya 2.250-256
Appendix B:
A Running translation of the Vakyapadiya 2.285-2.297
Best wishes,
Roy
