14. From nature to culture: the Asian Palm Civet ?bhonda?? in a Bengali lexical field and ?perceptual group"
15. For non-Banglaphone South Asians: the Bengali (Asian Palm Civet) ?bhonda?? or its closest approximations
16. Our bhonda? and his honorific in translated title and text
Appendices
i.        The text: editions
ii.   The supernatural and folklore figures
iii.    The musical instruments
iv.     The measures
v.       The magic lantern as a scientific instrument
vi.     The plants
vii.   Which subspecies is Bhonda? Bahadur;what do our bhonda?s look like?
viii. Gaganendranath as a painter and Bhonda? Bahadur
x.     The Variations between Versions: ?Dadabhay-er Deyala? (1926) and Bhonda? Bahadur (1956)


Editor's notice:
https://india.oup.com/product/fantasy-fictions-from-the-bengal-renaissance-9780199486755? <https://india.oup.com/product/fantasy-fictions-from-the-bengal-renaissance-9780199486755?>

Fantasy Fictions from the Bengal Renaissance
Abanindranath Tagore?s The Make-Believe Prince (Kheerer Putul) Gaganendranath Tagore?s Toddy-Cat the Bold (Bhonda? Bahadur). Translated by Sanjay Sircar.
Publication date: 29/06/2018
ISBN: 9780199486755 
Paperback 372 pages
Description


Fantasy Fictions from the Bengal Renaissance presents two masterpieces of Bengali literature by Rabindranath Tagore?s nephews, Abanindranath Tagore and Gaganendranath Tagore. 
The Make-Believe Prince is the delightful story of a king, his two wives, a trickster monkey, a witch, and a helper from another world who is not a ?fairy godmother?. Abanindranath deploys traditional children?s rhymes and paints exquisite word-pictures in his original rendering of a tale which has its roots in Bengali folktale materials in various genres. 
Toddy-Cat the Bold sees a group of brave comrades seek help from a young boy to rescue the son of their leader from the Two-Faced Rakshasa of the forest. Here, a more numinous supernatural helper appears. Inspired by Lewis Carroll?s Alice books, it presents a comic, exciting, and mysterious journey quite unlike Carroll?s, with many traditional local touches and an unexpected ending. 

About the Author 
Abanindranath Tagore was a renowned Indian artist, author, and folklorist. 
Gaganendranath Tagore was a famous satirical cartoonist, and a pioneer of lithography and design in India. 
The two brothers are considered to be among the earliest modern artists of India. They founded the Indian Society of Oriental Art, Kolkata, India.



Table of contents


Foreword by Peter Hunt 
Preface 

THE MAKE-BELIEVE PRINCE (KHEERER PUTUL) 

Recasting Folktale: Maerchen-Rupkatha/Women?s Ritual Bratakatha Tale Material to Buchmaerchen/Kunstmaerchen 
1. The Two Queens 
2. The King Plans a Sea Voyage 
3. The Desires of the Younger Queen 
4. The Elder Queen?s Desire 
5. The King?s Illusions 
6. The Land of Rubies and the Land of Gold 
7. The Land of Pearls and the Land of the King?s Daughter 
8. The King?s Return 
9. The Younger Queen?s Welcome 
10. The Arrival of the Monkey 
11. The Elder Queen?s Welcome 
12. The Sorrow of the Elder Queen 
13. The Monkey?s Consolation 
14. The Disappearance of the Monkey 
15. The Monkey?s Prediction 
16. The Elder Queen?s Necklace 
17. The Royal Quarrel 
18. The Monkey?s Complaint 
19. The Hovel Renewed 
20. The New Pavilion 
21. The Witch 
22. The Platter of Sweetmeats 
23. The Monkey Physician 
24. The Imaginary Princeling 
25. Arranging a Betrothal 
26. The Make-Believe Prince 
27. The Bridegroom?s Journey 
Two Nursery Rhymes 
28. The Venerable Shashthi and the Aunts of Sleep 
29. The Monkey?s Blackmail 
More Nursery Rhymes 
30. The Dreamland of Children 
And Still More Nursery Rhymes 
31. The Monkey?s Quest 
32. The Wedding 
33. Happy Ever After 
Annotated Bibliography 

Illustrations 
The Neglected Elder Queen and Her Hovel 
The King?s Voyage 
The King Returns to the Younger Queen 
The Elder Queen Welcomes Home the King 
The Elder Queen and the Monkey 
The Monkey Seeks the Reason for the Elder 
Queen?s Sorrow 
Shashthi and Her Cats 
Shashthi and Her Cats, as the Monkey Looks On 
The Elder Queen Welcomes Home Her Little Prince 

TODDY-CAT THE BOLD (BHONDA? BAHADUR) 

?In the Manner of Lewis Carroll?, but a Very Different Matter 

1. Bhonda? Arrives: The Call to Battle 
2. The Attack of the Two-Faced Rakshasa of Chutupalu 
3. Farewell to Bhonda? Mahal 
The Song the Army Sang 
4. Mishap at Kamalapuli Railway Station, but Soldiering on to the Ancient Apothecary 
5. In Front of the Mad King?s Garden, and What Happened There 
6. The Blue Mountain, the Palm-Leaf Sentries, and Brother Fox 
7. To the Secret Chamber 
8. The Top-Knotted Old Mother 
9. Sleeping? 
10. ?and Waking 

Appendices 
About the Authors and the Translator

???????????????????
Christophe Vielle <https://uclouvain.be/en/directories/christophe.vielle>
Louvain-la-Neuve





-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20180814/3c8fee2a/attachment.htm>

