From ajay.rao at utoronto.ca  Tue Aug 28 05:43:53 2018
From: ajay.rao at utoronto.ca (Ajay Rao)
Date: Tue, 28 Aug 18 05:43:53 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Tenure-track Position in South Asian Literatures at the University of Toronto
Message-ID: <D2D903A5-4C27-4F6F-9B2D-8FA7AF61D54F@utoronto.ca>

Dear friends and colleagues,

We are advertising another South Asia tenure-track position at the University of Toronto this year, this one at the Associate Professor rank. The deadline is October 12. The position is in the English department, but applicants working in all languages and all periods will be strongly considered. We would be extremely grateful if you could pass this along to any interested candidates.

Thank you,

Ajay Rao
University of Toronto


The Department of English and Drama at the University of Toronto Mississauga (UTM)
invites applications for a tenure-stream position at the rank of Associate Professor in South Asian Literatures. The appointment will commence on July 1, 2019 or shortly thereafter.

Candidates with expertise in South Asian literatures of any period will be considered. We are most interested in applications from scholars whose research is focused on Anglophone South Asian literatures but whose courses will integrate Anglophone writing with South Asian literatures from a range of periods and traditions (in translation where necessary).

Applicants must have a PhD degree in literature or a closely related field and a substantial track record of excellence in teaching and research. Candidates must provide evidence of research excellence as demonstrated by a record of sustained high-impact contributions and publications in top-ranked and field relevant journals, a submitted research statement, presentations at significant conferences, distinguished awards and accolades, and other noteworthy activities that contribute to the visibility and prominence of the discipline, as well as strong endorsements from referees of high standing. Evidence of excellence in teaching must be provided through teaching accomplishments, the teaching dossier submitted as part of the application including a strong teaching statement, sample course syllabi, and teaching evaluations, as well as strong letters of reference.

The successful candidate will be a full member of the Graduate Department of English, which consists of faculty from the University?s three campuses (UTM, University of Toronto Scarborough, and the Faculty of Arts and Science). Duties will consist of research; the supervision of PhD dissertations; and teaching undergraduate courses at the Mississauga campus and graduate classes at the St. George campus.

Salary will be commensurate with qualifications and experience.

All qualified applicants are invited to apply by clicking on the link below. Applications should include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching dossier (including a statement of teaching philosophy), a statement outlining current and future research interests, and a substantial writing sample.

Equity and diversity are among UTM?s core values and are essential to academic excellence. We seek candidates who value diversity and whose research, teaching and service bear out our commitment to equity. Candidates are therefore also asked to submit a one to two page statement about their contributions to equity and diversity in the communities to which they belong, which might cover topics such as (but not limited to): research or teaching that incorporates a focus on marginalized literatures; the development of inclusive pedagogies; or the mentoring of students from underrepresented groups.

Applicants should also arrange for at least three letters of reference to be sent directly by the referee--on official letterhead, signed and scanned--by email to edassist.utm at utoronto.ca<mailto:edassist.utm at utoronto.ca>. All application materials including letters of reference are due by 12 October, 2018.

Submission guidelines can be found at: http://uoft.me/how-to-apply. Please submit attachments in PDF format only. We recommend combining attached documents into one or two files in the following format:

  1.  letter, CV, research statement, statement on contributions to equity and diversity, teaching dossier;
  2.  publications.

The sacred land on which the University of Toronto operates has been a site of human activity for 15,000 years. It is the territory of the Huron-Wendat and Petun First Nations, the Seneca, and most recently, the Mississaugas of the Credit River. Today, the meeting place of Toronto is still the home to many Indigenous people from across Turtle Island. UTM is part of the tri-campus University of Toronto, a research-intensive institution with a strong interdisciplinary commitment, a multicultural student body, a wide range of collaborative programs and institutes, and one of the largest library systems in North America. The University offers the opportunity to conduct research, teach, and live in one of the most diverse cities in the world. For further information on the UTM Department of English and Drama, the tri-campus Graduate Department of English, and the University of Toronto, see http://www.utm.utoronto.ca/english-drama/ and http://www.english.utoronto.ca/.

The University of Toronto is strongly committed to diversity within its community and especially welcomes applications from racialized persons / persons of colour, women, Indigenous / Aboriginal People of North America, persons with disabilities, LGBTQ persons, and others who may contribute to the further diversification of ideas. As part of your application, you will be asked to complete a brief Diversity Survey. This survey is voluntary. Any information directly related to you is confidential and cannot be accessed by search committees or human resources staff. Results will be aggregated for institutional planning purposes. For more information, please see http://uoft.me/UP. All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20180828/2b0ad39c/attachment.htm>

