[INDOLOGY] Regarding Further Clarifications on the WSC Forum
Dear all,
Like many of us, I share a sense of outrage and frustration over the 
obnoxious treatment of scholars in our field who represent and relate 
information about traditions and histories that are inconvenient to some 
group?s dominant narrative. And while clearly how audience members treat 
panelists, and how we treat each other is a moral and political issue, 
after working on the systematic disappearance of Indian moral philosophy 
in the literature for twenty years now, I think that the problem that 
gives rise to problems in scholarship (in print and at conferences) 
isn?t at base a moral or political problem: it?s a function of a bad 
account of thought and understanding that is ubiquitous.
This is the linguistic account of thought: accordingly thought is the 
meaning of what you say.It leads to a host of problems, some logical, 
others political. The main problem with this approach to thought is that 
it conflates how you see the world (encoded in your idiolect) with the 
thinkable rendering disagreement unintelligible. Those who do not share 
your vantage are thereby treated either as people to be converted, 
silenced or wiped out---not to be understood. It creates a fragile ego 
that can?t tolerate or contemplate disagreement.
I wasn't at this specific session of the WSC, but what Dr. Vajpeyi 
describes in her article fits the linguistic account of thought. In this 
case, the audience will conflate the thinkable with their outlook 
encoded in their idiolect. Not only will they not be able to countenance 
a divergence in perspectives, they will insist on their own idiolect 
(insisting for instance on "harijan" instead of "dalit"; insisting on 
their perspective instead of accepting a divergence and disagreement in 
perspectives between themselves and the panelists). Dr. Vajpeyi in her 
article also reports that ?Sanskrit professors at leading universities 
[were] making absurd claims, for example that caste is unrelated to 
birth; that Hindu society is inherently gender-blind; or that if the 
term ?varna? does not occur, there is no discrimination.? This too only 
makes sense if the outlooks of these individuals (the way they would 
rather view the world) is conflated with the thinkable, and this is a 
curse of the linguistic account of thought---that one's idiolectical 
world view is conflated with thought.
The reason this account of thought is ubiquitous is that it is imperious 
and is there by transmitted via imperialism and colonialism. It is also 
ancient, traceable to the Greek idea of /logos/, which marries the idea 
of thought, language and reason. It is the kernel of the /W/est. It 
sometimes seems like lupus: the disease with a thousand faces for two 
reasons. First it has a historical root in European thought and we can 
trace its transmission from Europe towards the east, but what it does is 
it empowers a colonized perspective as the content of thought, and then 
it seems to be quite separate from its European origins: it self-effaces 
behind the local, non-European perspective creating a novel, constructed 
identity that would have been unthinkable in the absence of this history 
of imperialism. How it expresses itself depends on the world view of the 
adherent. I argue in my work that it is ubiquitous in the literature, 
forming the basis of what I call ?Orthodox Indology?: this leads to the 
scrubbing of Indian moral theorizing that disagrees with dominant 
Eurocentric values and perspectives. When we look at specific cases 
where people are having trouble communicating, understanding or there is 
hostility, it seems that the problem is the particular world view of the 
participants. Hence, much energy is given to berating those who don?t 
share one?s world view in this orientation (secular scholars point a 
finger at the Hindu right for intolerance, the Hindu right points a 
finger at secular scholars for being anti-Hindu?). But the deeper 
problem is the conflation of one?s world view with thought. Failing an 
explicit criticism of this paradigm, interlocutors---and audience 
members of scholarly panels---will show up expecting to hear their world 
view articulated and will react with disappointment and the negative 
emotions that come in tow with a fragile ego when they are confronted 
with an alternate perspective. As I note in my work, this conflation of 
thought with belief is not only politically problematic, it goes against 
basic expectations of formal logic, where the validity of an inference 
comes apart from the truth of what is claimed. If we buy the linguistic 
account of thought, and we thereby conflate thought and belief (how we 
see things, what we take to be true), we are committed to irrationality 
for we can only ever evaluate something as reasonable if we think it's 
true.
I roll out this argument in greater detail in my recent /Hinduism/. The 
specific chapter relevant to the challenge of communication in a diverse 
world is:
Ranganathan, Shyam. 2018. 'Subcontinent Dharma, the Global Alt-Right, 
and the Philosophy of Thought.' In /Hinduism a Contemporary 
Philosophical Investigation/, 112-137. London: Routledge.
The alternate model that helps us respect the dictates of formal logic 
while allowing us to communicate in a diverse world constituted by a 
diversity of perspectives takes a page out of Pata?jali?s yoga. This 
unlocks the philosophical diversity of various traditions, especially 
those studied under the shadow of colonialism, and undermines hegemonic 
narratives of diversity.? Whereas the linguistic model of thought 
expects agreement as the condition of thinking, the alternative yoga 
inspired model expects a diversity of perspectives and disagreement as 
the condition of thinking and understanding. But thought on this account 
is not linguistic-relative: its relative to disciplines. And hence an 
Indology that proceeded along these lines couldn't treat the study of 
Sanskrit or Indian languages as central to the study of India's 
intellectual history.? The idea that philology and the study of Indian 
languages is central to the study of India is the /W/est. On the yoga 
inspired model, we would have to treat our historical subjects as peers: 
philologists would hence study philologists, philosophers would study 
philosophers, historians would study historians.? Disciplinary parity 
between reader and author, audience and speaker, on this account,? is 
essential to participate in joint activities of disagreement and 
research.? Failing such parity, there is no way to coordinate the 
disagreement as triangulating on objects of research from differing 
perspectives.
This chapter also makes special reference to the controversy surrounding 
Prof. Doniger, which bears similarities with this case.
Best wishes,
Shyam
Shyam Ranganathan
Department of Philosophy
York Center for Asian Research
York University, Toronto
shyam-ranganathan.info <http://shyam-ranganathan.info/>
/Hinduism: A Contemporary Philosophical Investigation 
<https://www.routledge.com/Hinduism-A-Contemporary-Philosophical-Investigation/Ranganathan/p/book/9781138909106>/
/The Bloomsbury Research Handbook of Indian Ethics 
<http://www.bloomsbury.com/uk/the-bloomsbury-research-handbook-of-indian-ethics-9781472587770/>/
/Pata?jali`s Yoga S?tras 
<http://penguin.co.in/book/classics/patanjalis-yoga-sutra/>/?(Translation, 
Edition and Commentary)
/Translating Evaluative Discourse: The Semantics of Thick and Thin 
Concepts <https://philpapers.org/rec/SHYTED>/
Full List, Publications <https://philpapers.org/profile/22035>
On 26/08/2018 12:34 PM, koenraad.elst--- via INDOLOGY wrote:
