Has anyone drawn attention to the work of Paul Hacker, who tried in a number of articles to establish criteria for determining the authenticity of works attributed to ?a?kara. They can be found in his Kleine Schriften.
Johannes Bronkhorst
On 28 Aug 2018, at 19:20, Harry Spier via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Thank you to Tracy Coleman, Willi Beinvogl, Elliot Stern, Timothy Lighthiser, Alakendu Das, Jonathan Silk, David Reigle,, Claude Newell-Lessiauer Rocco Cestola,and  Rembert Lutjeharms for the links and articles on Sankara's authorship.
Harry Spier
On Mon, Aug 27, 2018 at 11:39 PM, David and Nancy Reigle <dnreigle at gmail.com<mailto:dnreigle at gmail.com>> wrote:
Dear Harry,
Specifically on the evaluation of ?a?kar?c?rya's authorship of the Dak?i??m?rtistotram:
The first (and possibly still only) person to make a comprehensive examination of the authorship of virtually all the writings attributed to ?a?kar?c?rya was S. K. Belvalkar, assisted by R. D. Vadekar. Belvalkar announced the results in a 1925 lecture published in his Shree Gopal Basu Mallik Lectures on Ved?nta Philosophy (Poona, 1929). He considered 408 works attributed to ?a?kar?c?rya, the largest number of which were stotras. He concluded that only 24 of these 408 works were actually by ?a?kar?c?rya. These 24 included eight stotras, among which was the Dak?i??m?rtistotram. He regarded it as genuine because several old commentaries on it by important Ved?nta writers are available (see p. 222).
In 1932 Amarnath Ray's article, "The  Dak?i??m?rti Hymn and the M?nasoll?sa," was published in The Journal of Oriental Research, Madras, vol. 6, pp. 121-129. He rejected ?a?kar?c?rya's authorship of this hymn, regarding it instead as actually being the work of some Kashmir ?aiva writer. The editor of this journal, S. K. Sastri, added a note at the end of this article disagreeing with Ray's conclusion.
Robert Erwin Gussner studied seventeen hymns in his 1973 Harvard PhD thesis (under Daniel Ingalls), Hymns of Praise: A Textual-Critical Analysis of Selected Vedantic Stotras Attributed to Sankara with Reference to the Question of Authenticity, comparing their terminology with that of the Upade?as?hasr?. A summary of his results was published in an article, "A Stylometric Study of the Authorship of Seventeen Sanskrit Hymns Attributed to ?a?kara," Journal of the American Oriental Society, vol. 96, 1976, pp. 259-267. He rejected ?a?kar?c?rya's authorship of fifteen of these seventeen hymns on the basis of the criteria he used, and a sixteenth on other grounds, but allowed the possibility of it for the Dak?i??m?rtistotra.
Of course, this refers to the ten verses of this stotra proper, not to the five additional verses that are often printed with it. Gussner has provided a critical edition of these ten verses in his 1973 thesis.
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Sun, Aug 26, 2018 at 1:19 PM, Harry Spier via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Dear list members,
I'm looking for articles that discuss the authorship of works attributed to ?a?kar?c?rya .  Which works are considered genuinely by him and which are not.
Even better are articles that discuss the authorship  and dating of the Dak?i??m?rtistotram .  Whether that is considered genuinely by ?a?kar?c?rya or whether that is a much later work.
Many thanks,
Harry Spier
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info<mailto:indology-owner at list.indology.info> (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info<http://listinfo.indology.info/> (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
