[INDOLOGY] Response to several messages on Caste and Gender at the WSC
Dear Ananya,
Thank you for raising these issues and for sharing your experiences at the
WSC with those of us who could not attend. (And thank you to Adheesh and
the other organizers for giving you and Dr. Panwar the opportunity to share
your experiences in the forum of the conference.)
The fact that your attempt to share a marginalized perspective within the
field stirred up a chorus of all-too-familiar refrains-- that Sanskrit, or
any language or knowledge system, can somehow be hermetically separated
from the political; that criticism of texts, authors, or ideas *within
*Sanskrit
constitutes an attack *on* Sanskrit, on Hinduism, on the India nation,
etc.; that 'western scholars' and 'Left scholars in India' are cooperating
as part of a worldwide conspiracy to destabilize the Indian state, etc.--
reflects the very fact that a conversation on these issues is much needed
in the field and, as you wrote, in South Asian studies more generally.
The fact that so much of the criticism that has been directed at your panel
is thinly-veiled casteism, sexism, elitism, and chauvinism requires a
public condemnation, as well as expression of public support for you, Dr.
Panwar, the organizers of the conference, and others who wish to see this
conversation continue in a healthy and hopefully transformative manner.
It also requires some critical and self-reflexive analysis into the
structures and dynamics of academic exchange within and between
postcolonial societies of the type that Dr. RP Chakravarthi suggested
earlier on this list. As the recent debate on the Association of Asian
Studies conference
<https://thewire.in/education/debate-boycott-the-ministers-and-officials-attacking-academic-freedom>
in Delhi demonstrated, we unfortunately all belong to institutions that
participate in the reproduction of differential power structures, be they
predicated on economics, nation, race, caste, etc.
Of course, there is already good scholarship from which we can draw to
being the conversation. Since so much of the negative response to the
panel *The
Story of Our Sanskrit* is premised on the trope of hurt sentiments and on
the idea that the representation of Dalit or female perspectives somehow
comes at the cost of representation of upper-caste or male perspectives,
perhaps the following two articles will be illuminating:
Philipp Sperner, "Harmful Speech and the Politics of Hurt Sentiments:
Censorship as a Biopolitical Project in India." *Economic and Political
Weekly*, November 5, 2016.
Matthew W. Hughey, "White Backlash in the 'Post-racial' United States." *Ethnic
and Racial Studies* 37, no. 5: 721?730.
I've attached copies for those interested.
Best,
TWW
On Thu, Aug 23, 2018 at 8:05 AM Ananya Vajpeyi via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
