[INDOLOGY] Fantasy Fictions from the Bengal Renaissance
On behalf of Sanjay Sircar, an independent scholar:
Le 11 ao?t 2018 ? 05:10, S Sircar <ssircar1 at yahoo.com.au <mailto:ssircar1 at yahoo.com.au>> a ?crit :
This is not re skulls in the Tantropakhyana, Tantrakhyayika and Artola's work [cf. H. Tull's post of 30-6-2017], but this ---
Two Fantasy Fictions from the Bengal Renaissance, New Delhi: OUP, 2018: 
a book on the margins/intersections of folktale/folklore studies, kiddylit studies and colonial Indological cultural studies proper.  
Maybe there is a  Bengal/South Asia-involved folklorist who would be willing to review it for the Folklore Fellows, who say they will not send it out for review themselves, but will print a review if they receive one? (This seems to be an odd way of doing things, but that is what they said.)
Vol. includes, on The-Make Believe Bridegroom
The Bengal Renaissance and folktale, in this case Maerchen-Rupkatha, Kunstmaerchen, and Women?s Ritual Bratakatha Tale  
1.      Abanindranath?s immediate source
2.      Folklore, Collecting Folktales, Colonial Control and National Pride
3.      Abanindranath?s story as a form of AT (Folktale) Tale Type 459
4.      Folk-fairytale, ?Art?-fairytale; Folk nursery-rhyme used creatively in original work
5.      The ?kheer? doll of Abanindranath?s story, its origin and nature
6.      The Brahmin Witch: who is she?
7.      Shashthi tales: the crossover between ordinary folk-fairytales and women?s ritual tales
8.      Yet another contemporaneous reworked Shashthi-tale from the Tagores: Jnanadanandini Devi?s drama for children ?The Seven Champa Brothers?
9.      The particular ?Indian dress? of AT 459 in Abanindranath?s Kunstmaerchen form
10.  Specific features of this translation, and the illustrations
Appendices
i.          Motif Summary of Kheerer Putul itself (not AT 459 generally)
ii.         Indian versions of AT 459 in the order they were first published
iii.        Relevant Puranic, Mangal-Kavya and Bratakatha Material
iv.        Iranian/Palestinian versions of AT 459 in the order in which they were first published
v.         Editions of Kheerer Putul in Bengali
vi.        Bengali dramatisations of Kheerer Putul
vii.       English translations of Kheerer Putul
viii.      Translations of Kheerer Putul into Other Indian Languages
ix.        A distinct line of translation/illustration into European languages other than English 
On Bhonda? Bahadur,?In the Manner of Lewis Carroll?, but a Very Different Matter
1. Dream-Convention: Entering Dream, Traversing Dreamland,and Returning from It 
2. The Social World of the New Bengal Dreamland
3. The Carroll-derived inhabitants of the new Bengal wonderland
4. Gendered and Generic Adaptation: A New Male Mock-heroic Quest
5. UnCarrollean Maerchen elements
6. The Epic Quest of the Divine Hero
7. The Myth of the Goddess and the Jat?-bu?i
8. Pointers to Interpretation
9. Unfinished Stories and an Unfinished Quest: Anti-climactic, Peripheral, Unnecessary, yet Meaningful
10. A New Theme: Growing Down, a New Start
11. In Sum: Carroll and Gaganendranath
12. Specific features of the Translation
13. Before we translate him, what species of animal is Bhonda? Bahadur?
