[INDOLOGY] Sanskrit can tackle climate change
Dear Camillo, dear all,
What I find most striking in these debates is the lack of
definition/understanding of what people mean when they say 'Sanskrit'. The
author of the article at the basis of this thread does not seem to have had
a good idea of what they or the speakers they talk about were thinking of;
as Nagaraj pointed out further down in this thread, Sanskrit *literature*
contains numerous passages that might be relevant in the climate change
debate.
What is needed to tackle climate change is for people to live moderately
and treat their environment (human and non-human) with respect, and for
companies to do that even more so. What also is needed is research that
leads to understanding of what the factors are that are the most damaging
to the environment.
Sanskrit - the language - cannot help us with that. Sanskrit literature,
and many other literatures and literary cultures all over the world,
present us with us with centuries and sometimes even millennia of careful
thoughts on how to live happily without greed and with respect for others.
There are many texts that furthermore encourage careful inquiry, i.e. the
kind that is the necessary basis of climatological research. As such,
knowledge of (some of) the thoughts presented to us by Sanskrit literature
can indeed help us with climate change, as it can with many other aspects
of our modern lives.
So, understood in this very specific way, yes, Sanskrit can help us tackle
climate change.
But to phrase it in this stand-alone way is misleading: knowledge of the
thoughts people have thought in the past, of the ways in which people in
the past have dealt with very human problems, and of the ways in which
those problems actually remain very relevant today: this is what helps us
deal with climate change (among other things).
So up with Sanskrit scholarship, up with ALL the humanities! We just need
to make this point more clearly and probably more repeatedly; maybe then
they'll stop cutting our funding.
All the best,
      Antonia
On Mon, 10 Sep 2018 at 17:12, Camillo Formigatti via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Dr Antonia Ruppel
www.cambridge-sanskrit.org
