[INDOLOGY] Scientification in India
This reminds me of my own foray into Indian languages and computing. It was back when Pascal was widely used and Smalltalk (one of the first object-oriented programming languages, championed by Daniel Ingalls, Jr., the son of the famous Sanskritist) was widely discussed. Prof. Emeneau asked me to give a talk on linguistics and I decided to show how the Dravidian languages are well-adapted for computerization, or at least to show how some aspects of their structure could give insight into developing new computer languages. My idea was based on modularization. In South Dravidian (and, I would guess, other Dravidian branches), sentences have the structure SOV, and the verb can be changed from a finite verb to an adjective, noun or adverb by changing its suffix. When this is done, the sentence is then inserted into another sentence with a finite verb, which itself can then be changed into another part of speech if so desired. Dravidian thus makes it simple to create long sentences with many subsidiary parts that themselves are potential sentences. This, I thought, was something that fits the paradigm of object-oriented programming languages. In the event, my talk was scheduled at an inconvenient time and, fortunately perhaps, almost no one showed up.
At present, I really don?t think any human languages are of much help in developing computer languages. The kind of modularity present in contemporary computer languages like Swift is quite different from the structure of any language I am familiar with. But, I would add, highly inflected Indo-European languages like Sanskrit and Russian strike me as singularly poor models for computer languages. Certainly, I would argue, a good case can be made that Tamil gives more insight into the sort of modularization central to programming than Sanskrit. George Hart
On September 11, 2018 at 8:32:30 AM, patrick mccartney via INDOLOGY (indology at list.indology.info <mailto:indology at list.indology.info>) wrote:
