From Naomi.Appleton at ed.ac.uk  Mon Sep 10 13:16:23 2018
From: Naomi.Appleton at ed.ac.uk (APPLETON Naomi)
Date: Mon, 10 Sep 18 13:16:23 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] CFP: Spalding Symposium on Indian Religions, 12th-14th April 2019, Lancaster
Message-ID: <15A6811B-4ED4-4D5F-977E-467E09CC09E3@ed.ac.uk>


Spalding Symposium on Indian Religions
Call for papers: 2019 Symposium

We invite proposals for papers for the 44th Spalding Symposium on Indian Religions, which will be hosted by Lancaster University, 12-14 April 2019.

The theme this year is ?gender?. Our purview includes both religions of South Asian origin wherever in the world they are being practised, and those of non South Asian origin present within South Asia. We welcome papers based upon all research methods, including textual, historical, ethnographic, sociological and philosophical.

Presenters are allocated forty minutes for their paper and twenty minutes for discussion, and will normally be expected to pay their own conference registration and expenses. The Symposium fee, including food and accommodation, is predicted to be ?190, with a non-residential rate of ?85. Registration details will be released in the new year. Limited financial assistance may be available for early career scholars or scholars from South Asia. If your participation depends upon such support please indicate this when you submit your abstract.

We also welcome proposals from doctoral students, who will be allocated twenty minutes for their paper and ten minutes for discussion, and offered free registration at the Symposium (including accommodation). Doctoral student papers do not have to address the theme of gender, but are more than welcome to do so.

We are delighted to announce our keynote speakers and their provisional paper titles:

  *   Chakravarthi Ram-Prasad, Fellow of the British Academy and Distinguished Professor of Comparative Religion and Philosophy at Lancaster University: ?Anger and Gender: A Sideways Look Through Rasa Theory at Draupad? and Bh?ma?
  *   Sondra Hausner, Professor of Anthropology at the University of Oxford: ?Gender, Ritual, and Hierarchy: Ascetic Inversions at the Great Indian Kumbh Mela?

If you would like to give a paper, please send a title and abstract (maximum 500 words) to Dr Brian Black, b.black at lancaster.ac.uk<mailto:b.black at lancaster.ac.uk>, by Friday 16 November 2018.

Further information about the Symposium can be found on our website, spaldingsymposium.org<https://spaldingsymposium.org/>, where you can also sign up to receive details of the programme and booking information when available.

--------------------------------
Dr Naomi Appleton
Senior Lecturer in Asian Religions
School of Divinity, University of Edinburgh
naomi.appleton at ed.ac.uk<mailto:naomi.appleton at ed.ac.uk>
www.naomiappleton.wordpress.com




The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20180910/1fe2def1/attachment.htm>

