[INDOLOGY] Sanskrit can tackle climate change
Thanks, Prof. Camillo Formigatti , for agreeing that Sanskrit , like any
language is not toxic.
Yes, I am equally worried about climate change.
Speaking Sanskrit can not tackle climate change.
Using Sanskrit for any other form of communication such as writing in it
can not tackle climate change.
After diagnosing the roots of the Ecological Crisis in the 'modern'
attitude of dominating or controlling nature (I need not quote any specific
book or article here because there are plenty of them) and in the Christian
attitude ( Lynn White's well discussed/debated famous/notorious article "
Historical Roots of the Ecological Crisis) people turned towards
traditional cultures from various places, countries etc. Many arrived at
the conclusion that cultural diversity is key to biodiversity which is key
to environmental health of the Earth. That India has been pro-diversity
from millennia can not be disputed. It has been the opposite of the
uniformity imposing messianic cultures. That literature in Sanskrit
articulates the worldview contributing to the age old diversity in India is
the point. In addition, Texts such as the Gita in Sanskrit have a very
clear articulation of nature friendly attitude and following eco-cycle etc.
as shown in my early post in the present thread. Of course, this kind of
ideas can be found in some other texts in some other languages too. But
this forum is not a forum of Egyptology to discuss similar ideas in ancient
Egypt if there are any. Since  discussing Sanskrit is within the scope of
the list, we are doing it here.
I did not make a statement that Sanskrit can tackle climate change anywhere
in the thread.
When Prof. Ruppel said that in a certain specific sense, phrasing by the
thread initiator can be justified, I agreed with her and said that I would
have said the same.
This book
<https://books.google.co.in/books/about/Technology_and_Human_Destiny.html?id=9bbQAAAAMAAJ&redir_esc=y>
and
Myths of Science and Technology by the Mc Cormac by the same publisher
discuss use of Indian worldview for a solution to ecological crisis.
On Wed, Sep 12, 2018 at 12:10 AM, Camillo Formigatti <
camillo.formigatti at bodleian.ox.ac.uk> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
