[INDOLOGY] Position: South Asian Humanities
Assistant Professor of South Asian Humanities
The Department of South Asian Languages and Civilizations at The University of Chicago invites applications for a tenure-track position at the level of Assistant Professor in the field of the South Asian humanities, preferably to begin July 1, 2019, or as soon as possible thereafter. We seek to appoint a junior scholar possessing field-leading empirical and theoretical interests and abilities, who will significantly contribute to current and future debates within the field of South Asian area studies, and who will be able to articulate how the goals of humanistic learning may be conceived from the perspective of the region. The area of specialization is open, but the Department especially welcomes applicants whose work focuses on the practice of multilingual philology, or those interested in humanistically inclined social science approaches to South Asia. Similarly, while no particular areas of language competence are specified, the successful candidate will be able to offer advanced language courses in one or more South Asian languages, possess superior skills in reading primary source texts, and be able to guide doctoral research in these areas. We are especially interested in candidates who can complement our existing strengths in Bangla, Hindi, Marathi, Sanskrit, Tamil, Tibetan, and Urdu, whether through enhancing these, or offering new areas of regional and language expertise.
Applicants should be prepared to teach in UChicago's undergraduate College and to offer graduate courses in their area of specialization. The teaching load for tenure track positions is typically four courses per year; additional responsibilities include advising at all levels of the program as well as service on departmental and university committees.
Candidates must submit a CV, a cover letter addressing current research and teaching interests, an article or chapter-length writing sample, and an abstract of a book or dissertation project to the Academic Careers website at https://academiccareers.uchicago.edu for posting #03871. In addition, the names, affiliations, and email addresses of three referees must be submitted with the application materials. A PhD is required by the start of the appointment. All requests for further information may be directed to salcsearches at lists.uchicago.edu<mailto:salcsearches at lists.uchicago.edu>. All application materials must be submitted by October 15, 2018. The position is contingent upon final budgetary approval.
The University of Chicago is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity/Disabled/Veterans Employer and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national or ethnic origin, age, status as an individual with a disability, protected veteran status, genetic information, or other protected classes under the law. For additional information please see the University's Notice of Nondiscrimination at http://www.uchicago.edu/about/non_discrimination_statement/. Job seekers in need of a reasonable accommodation to complete the application process should call 773-702-0287 or email ACOppAdministrator at uchicago.edu<mailto:ACOppAdministrator at uchicago.edu>with their request.
