[INDOLOGY] Sanskrit can tackle climate change
Dear colleagues,
After hearing arguments of both sides on ?Sanskrit can or can not tackle the climate change?, we seem to be much worried about 'what Sanskrit can or can NOT do?, but not about ?how to tackle the climate change?. 
Anyway let me place my point here.
In one of the postings I read a very careful reading of the phrase ?Sanskrit can tackle the climate change?. All statements need not be interpreted on their face-value. At the same time, without a meaningful purpose such lAkShaNika expressions are not worth to consider. In such case, we will have to analyse such statements carefully. As some opine it is true that ?Sanskrit is just a language as any other language?. So, as a language it can not bring any changes in external climate. However, the statement has something special to offer. That is - Sanskrit has some special characteristics which will help us to bring some changes in climate by bringing changes in human behaviour?..let us examine this how it is possible. 
Aspect one : Sanskrit, even as a language, employed in proper way, produces some purifying properties (Dhrma) in thoughts according to Patanjali. (See MahaBhashya). This ?PURE? Sanskrit employed in particular way by a team of people can tackle the climate change. Many a times it is tested and attested by conducting Varuna Japa (by chanting of Vedic hymns)  (Nobody knows how is this possible) In India it is still practiced. (No matter even if Nonbeliveres may reject it, it happens and believed by people in India and many other places). I am not arguing in favour of this belief. But, academicians can not reject also without verifying if someone (tradition) says so. We should not in fact believe in either side without testing. Nor we can reject either side. Thus, ?Sanskrit can tackle the climate change? is still valid for some and invalid for some others. When we (including myself) do not possess the tools to explore such supernormal ideas, we can not say anything if we are honest. Logically also if someone does not have smelling sense, he can not deny the existence of the fragrance in the sandal wood. 
Second aspect : As someone said - In India the term ?Sanskrit? stands for ?the thought or knowledge that is embedded in sanskrit language?. With this notion, Sanskrit is always identified with its content for which it is regarded as special. Some languages are meant for some particular purpose. They will have certain impact on the mental behaviour. Sanskrit it is believed that it can influence the mind to develop certain thoughts, which will govern human behaviour towards the objects that we perceive. In this sense, Sanskrit can influence the thought by virtue of its content which will in turn can tackle the climate change through the human behaviour. Some factors are so powerful that can inevitably influence human behaviour without human interventions. In this sense, Sanskrit is said to be an instrument to tackle the climate change, though climate change is not directly achievable. 
Lastly : It is just a linguistic expression in secondary sense. Many a times we say ?This highway goes to Delhi?, which is ridiculous or illogical if we analyse it. For, way Never moves from one place to another. It helps other to move from one place to another. Notwithstanding this fact, the people say in this way. Nobody objects this. Similarly, Sanskrit helps us to tackle the climate change by its literature. The expression is to be taken in secondary sense. 
I don?t see any serious problem here unless we see it with particular colour. 
Warm regards,
Shrinivasa Varakhedi
