[INDOLOGY] Scientification in India
Thanks, Prof. Dominik Wujastyk for bringing origins of such ideas into
discussion and mentioning Arya Samaj. That may indicate that you are aware
of the origin of such ideas in Arya Samaj. Whether you are aware or not,
Swami Dayananda Saraswati , the founder of Arya Samaj, in his Rigvedadi
Bhaashya Bhumikaa tries to show 'sciences' such as Astronomy, political
thought etc.  in the Vedas.
When you trace the origins of ideas such as ' all science is rooted in
India.' to such 19th century ideas as those of the founder of Arya Samaj,
you can see those ideas to be the extreme opposite ideas to the view of
Indians as savage, barbarian, ignorant lot without any rational thinking,
full of superstitions etc. Those ideas were a reaction to the humiliation
of a colonised nation by the coloniser community. This article
<https://gosai.com/writings/early-indology-of-india> is one of many
historical studies of such humiliating attitude of the intellectuals from
the community of the British people who colonised India. "No science, no
rational / logical thinking" was responded with claims ranging from "no
dearth for logical thinking, 'sciences etc.' "  up to the claims of all
'sciences'. India-humiliating colonial historiography was responded to by
India- praising nationalist historiography. Though most of the nationalist
historiographers were rigorous in their methodology and were careful enough
not to make unjustifiable claims, as it always happens, particularly in the
emotional conditions such as the Indian national movement, the tracing of
ancient India's advancements in various knowledge areas lead to the popular
exaggerations such as   ' all science is rooted in India.' . The two models
of knowledge development, both extremes exaggerations, one of "Paradise
Lost" and the other of linear evolutionist strand for which all older
knowledge has to be inferior to the newer one by definition, have been
running parallel to each other, opposing each other, swinging the pendulum
to their own extremes. The claims such as   ' , of the all science is
rooted in India.'  of the  "Paradise Lost"  school of thought very quickly
exploited by the  linear evolutionist strand for discounting the well
founded claims of advanced knowledge in India in certain knowledge areas.
On Wed, Sep 12, 2018 at 1:50 AM, Dominik Wujastyk via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
