[INDOLOGY] Sanskrit can tackle climate change
because German Indology has been good Indology.
anauchitya in it. You might be saying this to say that your statement
German Indology is a good Indology is not a subjective or biased statement
but an objective and unbiased one. that intention is well taken. But at the
same time, reacting or responding to statements about our respective
countries/nations as members of those nations has no anouchitya.
Trying to appear as though we have overcame our love for our own individual
prestige, prestige of our family, prestige of our educational institute of
our affiliation, nation of our origin, nation of our current belonging etc.
is unnecessary.
Expressions such as ?? ?? ??????  ????? ?????? ? suit a ????????, a
renounced ascetic , not a ??????  , a family person. Within the reference
frame of  ?????? ,  expressions such as ?? ?? ??????  ????? ?????? ? are
not only anauchitya but even infidelity and treachery to that system. In
Telugu there is an idiom meaning "dry Vedanta" used in reference to such
usages of extreme level ascetic Vedanta used by family people with mundane
interests.
Coming to the word German Indology, I must confess that my understanding of
-logy of -logy in the case of Indology is not adavanced enough to
distinctly identify German Indology from other strands of Indology. Prof.s
Vishwa Adluri and Joydeep Bagchee even talk of German Indology of 18th and
19th centuries as their focus. That is too much of a minute nuance to my
level of understanding. Some time ago, some people asked me to respond to
their posts and responses to their posts. I responded to them saying that
the issues such as antisemitism in German Indology (of 18th and 19th
centuries) etc. raised by them are not studied by me so well.
Later, a few months ago, I got the opportunity to meet the two professors
in India. That was their talk on Mahabharata. They were doing a
poorvapaksha of the view that Mahabharata is full of self-contradictions
etc.
Antisemitism might look to be straw man used by the critiques of early or
old German Indology to malign it using the Hitler, Nazis, genocide etc.
But 'Hinduism' and Indian nationalism have been greater victims of this
straw man based on Hitler, Nazis and genocide because the symbol of
swastika associated with 'Hinduism' and the word nationalism in Indian
nationalism are repeatedly invoked to stereotype 'Hinduism', Indian
nationalism etc. as fascist, Nazi-like, genocidal in tendency etc. The word
German Indology is not popular beyond the readers of the publications of
Profs Adluri and Bagchee. But the  repeated invoking of stereotypes of
'Hinduism', Indian nationalism etc. as fascist, Nazi-like, genocidal in
tendency etc  is found almost everywhere including popular political
discourse. Connection of German Indology with antisemitism may at least
give an impression of being reasonable. But why Hinduism should be bad
because Hitler used its sacred symbol or why Indian nationalism should be
bad because Hitler and Nazis were 'nationalists' or because they used the
unscientific racist term 'Aryan', is beyond the comprehension of any
reasonable understanding.
Those knowledgeable in German Indology of 18th and 19th centuries and its
connection or lack of it with antisemitism might discuss with Prof.s Adluri
and Bagchee.
I for one, am not in a reference frame of  ?? ?? ??????  ????? ?????? ? or
what your nation? , what my nation ? not to respond when I see that
misrepresentation of Sanskrit, India and Indian culture is being done
particularly by those who are viewed in India as those who chose  Sanskrit,
India and Indian culture  as their subject matter out of love and respect
for that subject matter.
On Mon, Sep 10, 2018 at 12:52 PM, Jonathan Silk <kauzeya at gmail.com> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
