[INDOLOGY] Soma and Amanita muscaria
Dear Mark,
Thanks much for passing on this really interesting post from Matthew Clark, whose work I wasn?t aware of previously.
I?ve always viewed skeptically claims that all references to homa/soma over the long periods and vast regions in which its use was reported in antiquity referred to one psychoactive plant. I think that you and I discussed this at one point years ago. It is nice to see Matthew suggesting the same thing, backing his case with cross-cultural evidence involving ayahuasca, which has long been known to involve different mixtures of drugs in different S. American regions. 
That said, in discussing the different types of plants & drugs putatively linked to homa/soma, I suspect that Matthew underestimates the potential role of ephedra (or ephedrine), which like a long list of similar sympathomimetic drugs in modern use (cocaine, amphetamine, methamphetamine, methylphenidate, etc.) is capable with chronic use of triggering schizophrenic-like visions not substantially different from those produced (if more reliably) by the hallucinogenic substances used in ayahuasca or similar psychoactive mixtures in the premodern world.
Thus Matthew writes: 
A lot of medical evidence in fact exists that off-target effects of chronic use of ephedra and related sympathomimetic drugs do, in fact, include hallucinations, although that was not the reason the FDA banned ephedra?s use in 2004.  
I became aware of these issues when involved in the mid 1990s in studies of narcoleptics, whose treatment at the time commonly involved long-term use of high doses of methylphenidate, methamphetamine, and other sympathomimetics related structurally to the stimulants in ephedra. A frantic search was on at the time for replacements for those drugs since an increasing number of narcoleptics were having psychotic reactions to the drugs that involved visual and auditory hallucinations indistinguishable from those seen in schizophrenics and users of LSD and similar psychedelic drugs. 
New supposedly safer stimulants like modafinil eventually came on the market, but over time it turned out that hallucinations were among their common off-target effects as well. The reasons why that is try can be inferred from what I say below.
I solicited and collected in the mid 1990s numerous reports from narcoleptic patients, including some who became friends, of contacts with aliens (or alternately, depending on their cultural backgrounds) of communications with gods, angels, or demons, etc., attributable to the drugs and not the waking dreams narcoleptics (who are not psychotic) experience daily.
The evidence is very strong today that hallucinations of similar sorts can be triggered by many different kinds of drugs, not just those currently viewed as psychedelics. The similarities are explained by many recent fMRI and post-mortem anatomical studies that suggest that the main driver of hallucinations of all sorts involves disruptions of neural systems linking ?higher? cortical regions in the prefrontal cortex to subcortical networks and key integrative neural networks in the insula and linked cortical structures, e.g. the anterior cingulate. 
The key point here is that *any* disruptions to the default resting networks linking those regions ? whether deriving from ingestion of exogenous chemicals like those in ephedra or by specific neurological diseases (bipolar disorder, Parkinson?s, Alzheimer?s, Huntington?s disease, & many others that produce hallucinations) will lead to similar schizophrenic-like or waking-visions. 
For some suggestive evidence here, see this recent paper by a major group on auditory hallucinations in the _Schizophrenia Bulletin_ which suggests the existence of ?domain-general mechanisms for hallucinations? of all major types:
_Auditory Hallucinations and the Brain?s Resting-State Networks: Findings and Methodological Observations_:
Full paper downloadable here: http://tinyurl.com/ycfyhm5j
Other recent papers on Alzheimer?s disease and hallucinations and visual rather than auditory hallucinations come to the same conclusion. 
In sum, you can damage these networks in many different ways, but the existence of those disruptions and not the specific diseases or chemicals causing the damage is what defines the character of the hallucinations. 
And all this together implies that you will never be able to identify the drug or more likely multiple drugs behind the hoama/soma question from evidence in the different strata of Vedic or early Iranian texts describing the nature of the visions. Hallucinations on this model whether triggered by stimulants, psychedelics, intentionally cultivated visionary experience, visions induced by sleep deprivation, or for that matter a well-aimed hammer to the head can all be expected on a deep level to look pretty much the same.
Granted, however, that some hallucinations may be more pleasant than others:
https://www.karger.com/Article/Pdf/481451
Regards,
Steve Farmer
The Systems Biology Group
Palo Alto, California
saf at safarmer.com
