[INDOLOGY] Question about manuscript ownership
Dear Friends
Nothing more than a small footnote to Antonio's response: I happened to
have a long discussion with an intellectual property law specialist last
week basically about exactly this question. The upshot: under US, UK and
European law (and I cannot say about India, but I guess it can't be
fundamentally different in this respect), it is not possible to exert
copyright over two dimensional reproductions of two dimensional objects (eg
manuscripts) which themselves are not subject to copyright. What is
possible is to make contractual conditions, but you can do this only if you
are the owner, of course. So if one does something with an MS, like
photographs it, and then the MS passes into other hands, it has no legal
bearing on the photos you made. What is more, if you take photos of an MS
in a library, for instance, or in someone's home, and they impose no
contractual conditions on you, you can do whatever you like with the photos
control of the images.  What this comes down to is that many if not most of
the claims being made for control of images of manuscripts are not legally
valid.
Nota bene: this is a different question from the following: do you want to
get into a fight with a library? The British Library in my view illegally
puts conditions on manuscripts they own. But if you annoy them, I'm sure
they are perfectly capable of mishandling your next request... I hasten to
say this is not so far my experience, but I did write to them asking them
the legal grounds upon which they were imposing conditions on me and their
response was not warm and fuzzy.
It reminds me of a joke from my childhood: We're the telephone company; we
don't care, we don't have to.
Jonathan
On Wed, Oct 31, 2018 at 6:34 AM Antonio Ferreira-Jardim via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
J. Silk
Leiden University
Leiden University Institute for Area Studies, LIAS
Matthias de Vrieshof 3, Room 0.05b
2311 BZ Leiden
The Netherlands
copies of my publications may be found at
https://leidenuniv.academia.edu/JASilk
