[INDOLOGY] Lexical challenge for the OIT
@ Koenraad Elst
I'd like to propose you a lexical challenge about your beloved OIT.
As an aside, we might discuss the exact nature of your "work". Is it 
really a scientific discourse or is it a kind of parasitic commentary on 
scientific discourse? I don't know if here is the right place for that 
kind of epistemological debate. My opinion is that your discourse is 
mostly a shit-and-muck sprinkling system that parades behind the mask of 
a pseudo-historiographical narrative, and that tries to sell a reductio 
ad Nazismus of Indo-European studies. But I'll let that to rest, as it 
might have been already discussed here.
Apparently, you do not seem to list in your bibliography the review I 
made of Talageri's book about "the final evidence", after you sent me a 
copy 10 years ago. To be frank, I belong to the category you mention of 
people who had never heard of the OIT. To put it simple, the OIT is so 
insane that I had not even imagined it existed.
Insane though the OIT may seem, it's not so easy to refute on purely 
lexical grounds and during the 10 years since you sent me Talageri's 
book, I've been thinking about regular linguistic arguments about how to 
handle the issue of the PIE homeland.
People usually consider that if a family originates in some homeland 
somewhere, then sister-families of said family should be located in the 
whereabouts of said homeland. I think this principle is universally 
accepted.
So I will first provide a number of indications about sister-languages 
of PIE:
1. Basque contains words that have decidedly archaic PIE phonetics. For 
example, hartz "bear" which is strikingly similar to Hittite hartakka- 
(PIE *H2rt-k-). Another less well-known item is ulhe, ulle "wool" (PIE 
*wlH2-). These Basque words are all the more interesting as they contain 
laryngeals. There are quite a lot of such words, but not all with 
laryngeals.
It seems unlikely that these words can be directly borrowed from PIE. 
Rather they are probably borrowed from some sister-language of PIE that 
was farther west than PIE and could get in contact with Basque at some 
point in the prehistory of Basque.
2. The existence of sister-languages of PIE in (Western) Europe is shown 
by a number of words in IEan languages (like Germanic, Italic or Celtic) 
that look like cognates but have un-IEan vocalism. For example, the word 
*pat-, *paut- "paw", or the word *kaput- "head". These words can be 
compared with PIE *ped- "foot" and PIE *ghebh-el- "head, top". They are 
dialectal with a limited geographic distribution, and logically they 
cannot be inherited from PIE properly said.
These words (*pat-, *paut- "paw", *kaput- "head") are structurally 
isomorphic with PIE as to consonants, but the vocalism a/u is aberrant. 
In other words, they are cognates belonging to sister-languages of PIE.
3. Another set of words can be derived from PIE roots thanks to un-IEan 
morphology. An example of that situation is Greek maskhal? "armpit" 
which shares the root of Germanic *skl-dr- "shoulder" and an extra 
prefix m(a)-. The root in maskhal? is not *maskh- but *skhal-. This 
prefix m- is in fact more frequent than people have been aware so far. 
For example, *manu- "man" can be compared with PIE *H4n-er "man". Again, 
we can see that a word like *manu- has the same aberrant vocalism a/u as 
*pat-, *paut- "paw", and *kaput- "head". Another better-known prefix is a-.
In my opinion, these words (and there are plenty of others) are highly 
suggestive that PIE must have been originally located not too far from 
Europe, where sister-languages of PIE seem to have been spoken, before 
their ultimate replacement by IEan languages. Otherwise, it becomes 
impossible to understand how sister-languages of PIE can provide 
borrowings in Basque with archaic phonetics or substratic words that 
look like cognates of PIE regular words.
So my lexical challenge for you and your OIT comrades is as follows: 
Considering that the OIT claims that PIE was originally a neighbor of 
Dravidian, Munda or Tibeto-Burmese,
1. Could you please provide a few words in Dravidian, Munda or 
Tibeto-Burmese, that have archaic PIE phonetics (like Basque hartz)? 
Laryngeals are especially welcome.
2. Could you please provide a few words in Dravidian, Munda or 
Tibeto-Burmese, that look like borrowings from a sister-language of PIE 
(like pat, paut, kaput, etc)? That is to say isomorphic with PIE words 
but with aberrant vocalism.
3. Could you please provide a few words in Dravidian, Munda or 
Tibeto-Burmese, that can be explained as PIE roots with abnormal 
morphology (like the pair Greek maskhal? "armpit" vs Germanic *skl-dr- 
"shoulder")? Of course, several words are necessary to make an affix a 
reasonable hypothesis.
Looking forward to your proposals.
Best regards
Arnaud Fournet
Le 16/10/2018 ? 18:00, indology-request at list.indology.info a ?crit?:
