[INDOLOGY] Soma and Amanita muscaria
Posting again on behalf of Matthew Clarke (awaiting acceptance to 
Indology list):
Dear Johannes, thanks for the question. Please excuse me, but I am in 
India at the moment, travelling light, and have no access to references. 
And I'm working just with my phone, so there will be errors in my text.
Firstly, I don't think Watson is quite right with his thesis or about 
the small number of psychoactive plants used in Asia. He fails to refer 
to publications on the use of psychoactive plants in New Guinea, for 
example.
The living tradition of the use of ayahuasca, epena, yopo etc. in South 
America has, in the last 70 years or so, led ethnobotanists to conduct 
tests on numerous plants, revealing their psychoactive properties. 
Richard Shultes and his students (Wade Davis, Mark Plotkin, Tim 
Ploughman, Glen Shepard, Mike Ballick, et al.) have been giants in this 
field.
As there is no living psychedelic tradition in South Asia (though there 
is a psychedelic haoma cult run by Qalandar Sufis in Iran - see my 
book), virtually no research into psychoactive plants in South Asia has 
been conducted so far.
In my book I have a preliminary "hit list" of a dozen plants. Leonti and 
Casu, in their important paper, provide details of 6 plants containing 
DMT, MAOIs, ephedrine and ibogaine. These plants are included in 
formulas for amrita that are in the Bower Manuscript. The two formulas 
for amrita in this text comprise around 100 plants, many of uncertain 
botanical classification. They observe that most of the plants have 
never been tested for psychoactive properties.
Additionally, I suggest that kusha/darbha grass deserves proper 
phytochemical analysis. Kusha is a relative of Phalaris grass, some 
varieties of which are rich in DMT. Giorgio Samorini has conducted 
extensive tests on Phalaris.
The variety of Arundo donax (Giant Reed) that grows in India has the 
highest DMT content of all varieties tested so far. I suggest that the 
mysterious hadhanaipata of the Avesta may be Arundo donax.
Praised in the highest terms in the AV is the kushta plant. I suggest 
that this may possibly be galangal (fragrant ginger), which is 
exceptionally rich in MAOIs.
The banyan, peepal, Butea frondosa (parna), and ficus glomerata, could, 
I speculate, also have psychoactive properties.
The soma oblation in Vedic rites is uncooked. Some South American groups 
press uncooked vines to extract the juice. I have come across anecdotal 
reports of successful "trips" using cold pressed Arundo donax.
There are unanswered questions in my thesis. Many plants need proper 
testing. But I believe that my ayahuasca analogue thesis gets the 
closest yet to answering the soma riddle.
Best regards, Matthew.
On 13/10/2018 10:18, Johannes Bronkhorst wrote:
