[INDOLOGY] Draupadii and polyandry
Dear All, "Thanks a lot" "Merci infiniment" "Dzi?kuj? bardzo" and "????
???????" for sharing your information, references and viewpoints on- and
off-list.
I am particularly happy to have the very precise and useful textual
references of Simon Brodbeck.
Your reading and citations seem to confirm that polyandry was
contemporaneously indeed experienced as something "excessively" or "too"
innovative.
(To me this neither implies nor excludes layers in the text: an author may
in a single design adopt a different, traditional style for "battle scenes"
and compose a different style epic poetry for other passages; again, unless
the epic is inscribed and well-preserved in rock, we cannot be sure whether
successive author-transmitters may have overlaid an old blue-print with new
ones.)
I also thank Matthew and Asko for their useful references off-list to
practices in Himalayan societies (but attested only from the late first
millennium) and to Iran,
and esp. for the reference to
A. Parpola ?Panda?ee and Siitaa: On the historical background of the
Sanskrit epics?, JAOS 122 (2), 361-373, and
A. Parpola  ?The Roots of Hinduism? (OUP 2015), p. 148-149
which I have started to re-read.
Not everything needs to be explained through direct contact and exchange,
but I recently came across another (possible) link between Iran and
Himalayan societies in the study of Tibetologist and Bonpo specialist Henk
Blezer et al. "Where to look for the origins of Zhang-Zhung related
scripts" Journal of the International Association of Bon Research Vol. 1
(2013): 99-174, according to which one of the places where representatives
of Zhang-Zhung ritual and religion imagine their pre-Buddhist origin is "to
the west", more precisely "Ta zig" (cp. Tajik-istan) i.e. prob. ancient
"Greater" Persia.  A structuralist or even a psychoanalytic interpretation
of epic passages need not exclude an interpretation in terms of references
to "ethnic" realities contemporaneous to the authors and first transmitters
of a text, and neither the formation of "linguistic communities" nor the
formation of "ethnic communities" necessarily depends (exclusively) on
genes (which also means that current hunter-gatherers or nomads need not be
racially "the same" as the hunter-gatherers or nomads of 2000 or 3000 years
ago -- this seems to be either forgotten or insufficiently highlighted in
current genetic studies).
Jan Houben
On Thu, 25 Oct 2018 at 13:52, Simon Brodbeck via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
*Jan E.M. Houben*
Directeur d'?tudes, Professor of South Asian History and Philology
*Sources et histoire de la tradition sanskrite*
?cole Pratique des Hautes ?tudes (EPHE, PSL - Universit? Paris)
*Sciences historiques et philologiques *
54, rue Saint-Jacques, CS 20525 ? 75005 Paris
*johannes.houben at ephe.sorbonne.fr <johannes.houben at ephe.sorbonne.fr>*
*johannes.houben at ephe.psl.eu <johannes.houben at ephe.psl.eu>*
*https://ephe-sorbonne.academia.edu/JanEMHouben
<https://ephe-sorbonne.academia.edu/JanEMHouben>*
