all you AIT champions are, on this, in the same camp as Hitler. From a 
scholarly angle, this is no big deal, as even Hitler can be right once 
in a while; that at least is what all AIT believers implicitly claim.

ok, so you repeat your erroneous claim. I could have not quoted one of 
your papers.
The OIT and Nazism share the same intellectual mold and obsession with 
autochthonicity and a mythical past.
Migrations being the cause of IEan expansions, both (1) the 
Pontico-Caspian homeland of late Neolithic dating or (2) the Anatolian 
homeland of early Neolithic dating are anti-autochthonist theories. As a 
consequence, contrary to your claim, they do not side with Hitler, but 
the OIT sides with Hitler. Same mold, same intrinsic logic.

@ Koenrad Elst scripsit:
I only mention it because AIT defenders invariably justify their 
stonewalling of Shrikant Talageri's or Michel Danino's work by alleging 
associations with politics, viz. with Hindu Nationalism. Well, if you 
really insist on bringing in politics,

LOL. I appreciate your sense of humour.
I definitely object to bringing in politics... and making a mess of IEan 
studies.

@ Koenrad Elst scripsit:
it is well worth reminding everyone that there never was a scholarly 
theory more abused for politics than precisely their own AIT. It was 
central in the ideological superstructure of British colonialism (but 
also played a role in the budding Freedom Movement, as proving a common 
origin with the Brits), it was the illustration par excellence of the 
Nazi worldview, and it is still used till today by several political 
movements in India, notably neo-Ambedkarism (though BR Ambedkar himself 
rejected the AIT, unlike Hindutva founder VD Savarkar), Dravidian 
chauvinism and, less well-known, also by a last hold-out of Brahmin 
supremacism. So if you don't like politics, you should stay away from 
the AIT.

Anyway, the "AIT" does not exist. It's a strawman.
What exists is (1) the Pontico-Caspian homeland of late Neolithic dating 
or (2) the Anatolian homeland of early Neolithic dating.

@ Koenrad Elst scripsit:
Or more constructively: if Indo-Europeanists were serious about the 
Homeland question (and during the still-recent controversy about Colin 
Renfrew's Anatolian Homeland theory, they were), they would resolutely 
study the OIT, starting with Danino's work on the Saraswati (not a 
"Hindutva concoction" but documented by Western scholars since the 
1850s), some of Nicholas Kazanas' work on the Sanskrit roots, and esp. 
Talageri's work on the Vedic evidence for the "Aryan" emigration from 
India. For those who never heard about this yet: Talageri has also done 
interesting work on the linguistic aspect (do read his argument of a 
rare case of successful linguistic paleontology, viz. on the elephant), 
but his major claim to fame is the discovery that there actually exists 
literary evidence for the IE expansion. For those not willing to part 
with a penny for purchasing his books: much of his work is available on 
the net in the form of webinars and blogs.

Who would pay to read that stuff ??






