[INDOLOGY] In memoriam Iravatham Mahadevan
In memoriam:  Iravatham Mahadevan (Manachanallur 30 January 1930 [actually 18? October 1929, according to Mahadevan] - Chennai 25 November 2018)
 By Asko Parpola
 On the 25 November 2018 Mahadevan's younger son Sridhar ? Professor of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of Massachusetts and currently Director of Data Science Lab at Adobe Research ? sent me and some other colleagues the following message, which I take the liberty of passing on to wider public, as it so aptly catches the essentials of Iravatham Mahadevan's character and life: 
 "It is with deep sadness that I inform you that Iravatham Mahadevan passed away today around 4 am. He was at peace at home, and till the end, lucid and clear in his thoughts. 
His final written words left us in no doubt as to what his own wishes were. He wrote around midnight:
?I fear I am recovering. Shame!?
He was not afraid of his impending demise, and I take some solace that he got his wish to depart at home after taking leave of his family, friends and colleagues. 
I had hoped that Appa would live longer, perhaps even to equal his long time mentor Professor Emeneau?s long and distinguished career at Berkeley. But, I am grateful that he lived a long rich life, as a beloved father, husband, skilled administrator, research scholar, newspaper editor, and not least of all, philanthropist. 
He gave away the vast portion of his fortune earned through the sale of his houses to set up a graduate medical research center at Shankar Nethralaya in Chennai, a renowned eye care institute. He also worked tirelessly raising scholarship funds for indigent students all over Tamilnadu. It was hard work each year to manage the educational trust, but be kept it going at great personal effort till very recently. 
Einstein once remarked about Mahatma Gandhi: ?generations to come, it may scarcely be believed that such an individual lived on this Earth?. Given IM?s manifold contributions to many diverse fields, I find this tribute entirely appropriate for Appa as well. 
He deeply loved his professional interactions with all of you, and I believe this in no short measure kept him going more than two decades after his wife?s untimely demise. 
In accordance with his wishes, we will cremate him this afternoon and scatter his ashes in the sea, close to where his wife Gowri?s ashes were scattered 26 years ago. - Sridhar" 
In the course of numerous field trips between 1962 and 1996, Mahadevan visited all the 110 caves containing early Tamil Brahmi inscriptions. He also collected pottery graffiti, coins and seals containing this script, dated between the 2nd century BCE and the 6th century CE.  With the two early papers published in 1968 and 1971, he already established himself as the best expert in this field of epigraphy:
- Mahadevan, Iravatham,  1968. Corpus of the Tamil-Brahmi inscriptions. Pp. 57-73 in: R. Nagaswamy (ed.), Seminar on inscriptions, 1966. Madras.
- Mahadevan, Iravatham, 1971. Tamil-Brahmi inscriptions of the Sangam age. Pp. 73-106 in: R. E. Asher (ed.), Proceedings of the Second International Conference Seminar of Tamil Studies, Madras, India, January 1968, vol. I. Madras.
Ceaseless study of the topic resulted in a superb monograph that appeared in 2003 and even in a revised and enlarged second edition in 2014:
