[INDOLOGY] invite to participate in "Churning of Indology" international conference 4th to 6th January 2019 Udupi
Dear List,
years. BVP is everybody?s need.
Should the Swadeshi spirit of the BVP also permeate the planned churning of
Western Indologists in Udupi, the circle of the needful will keep within
clearly definable limits.
Two quotes from BVP should suffice to make plain the ideological direction
things are taking at present.
A question on the linguistic age of Sanskrit as treated in Antonia Ruppel's
"Cambridge Introduction to Sanskrit" (2017) is answered there in this way:
"I would request you not to fully believe on this because, these westerners
have manipulated many of our scriptures date to either after Christ or if
not then some vague date. In Chennai or in Kerala, if there is any old
Sanskritam institution then pls contact them. Cambridge Oxford Harvard
Columbia and many have done enough harm to our Literature."
Harm done to Sanskrit and Indian literature by the sinister world of
anglophone scholars set aside, here is another of the many gems of that
sort: Leonardo da Vinci, who - doubtlessly by force of his own karma - was
unlucky enough to have been reborn in Italy, was considered to become a
namesake for a school in India run by an Indian person. One of Swadeshi
Indic persons reacted to the above idea of making this hapless Western
polymath a name patron in India in the following manner:
"Italy may have 1 person, but ours is a vast country. Hence we just can't
have 1. We have many.  Give your friend name of many Bhartiya counterpart
names. Let them know that we are in multiples in every field."
Future subjects of Indological research on the changing intellectual
environment of contemporary India appear in front of our eyes like grease
drops floating on the soup. Time to apply for funds. The sources are
inexhaustible.
Regards,
WS
Univ.-Prof. Dr. Walter Slaje
Hermann-L?ns-Str. 1
D-99425 Weimar
Deutschland
Ego ex animi mei sententia spondeo ac polliceor
studia humanitatis impigro labore culturum et provecturum
non sordidi lucri causa nec ad vanam captandam gloriam,
sed quo magis veritas propagetur et lux eius, qua salus
humani generis continetur, clarius effulgeat.
Vindobonae, die XXI. mensis Novembris MCMLXXXIII.
