[INDOLOGY] Visiting Professor in Social Sciences and/or Area Studies at Charles University in Prague
Dear Colleagues,
the Faculty of Arts, Charles University (Prague) invites applications for the position of a Visiting Professor in Social Sciences and/or Area Studies. I was assured by the vice-dean responsible for this offer that Indology fits well in it and applications from Indologists would be most welcomed, since the future of Indology in Prague is not quite sure at this moment and the presence of an international scholar might help to revive Indology studies at our faculty. 
The position is open in any area of social sciences and area studies at the relevant Departments of the Faculty. The applicant must be an internationally recognized scholar in his research area, and is expected to teach two 90-minute courses per week at advanced undergraduate (M.A.) level. The curriculum of the courses is proposed by the applicant and is part of the application. At least one of the courses should introduce topics related to recent research. All teaching will be in English, knowledge of the Czech language is not required. A teaching assistant for both courses will be provided by the Faculty.
The position is funded by the Czech Operational Programme Research, Development and Education, project no. CZ.02.2.69/0.0/0.0/16_015/0002362. The funding is available for one semester (5 months), starting on September 1st, 2019. The gross monthly salary is 84.000 CZK (approx. 3230 EUR).
The Faculty will provide assistance with locating housing and schooling for dependents (English language pre-school, elementary and secondary schools are available in Prague).
Electronic applications accompanied by curriculum vitae, list of publications, research and teaching statements, copy of the PhD diploma, and curricula of the proposed courses, should be sent to the Faculty of Arts, Charles University University (Marketa Krizova, Vice-Dean for International Relations, marketa.krizova at ff.cuni.cz). The aplication deadline is January 31, 2019. The review of candidates will begin immediately, and the successful candidate will be contacted by February 15, 2019.
https://www.ff.cuni.cz/2018/11/visiting-professor-social-sciences-and-or-area-studies/
With best regards,
Lubomir
Lubom?r Ondra?ka
Department of Philosophy & Religious Studies
Faculty of Arts, Charles University
Nam. J. Palacha 2, Praha 1, 116 38
CZECH REPUBLIC
e-mail: ondracka at ff.cuni.cz
