[INDOLOGY] The Buddha's body in a vat of oil
Additional references to this practice are to be found in the R?m?ya?a and its commentaries. In addition to the to the previously noted case of Da?aratha, there is the episode from the Uttarak???a in which R?ma instructs Lak?ma?a to have the body of the dead brahman child placed in a dro?a of oil  including fragrances and aromatic oils specifically so that it would not undergo decomposition of disintegration while R?ma  searches his kingdom for the person whose offense he has been told is the cause of this untimely (and remediable)  death.  (VR 7.66.2?4.)
Also unnoticed, and perhaps bearing on the exact sense of the term dro?a in this context is the Uttarak???a?s cautionary  tale of King Nimi as narrated at the critical edition?s APP. I, No. 8 lines 192?193.   (a passage which Dr. Sutherland Goldman and I  have restored to the text of our translation as VR 7. 5?5*.11). According to the legend, when Nimi was cursed to become disembodied, his court brahmins, servants and subjects  preserved (rak?anti sma) his body and worshiped it with fragrances and garlands, again evidently as a means of preventing its decay. The text does not specify how the body is preserved but three commentators on the passage, M?dhava Yog?ndra, Govindar?ja, and N?ge?a, understand that the body was placed in some sort of vessel of oil (tailaka??h?d?v iti ?e?a?) perhaps suggesting that they, at least,  read dro?a in the other passages to refer to a vat rather than a specific measure. 
P.V Kane discusses this practice briefly on pp. 233?234 of  Vol. 4 of his History of Dharma??stra, citing the R?m?ya?a example of Da?aratha as well as a few others from the Vi???pur??a (the Nimi story) and the s?tra literature. 
Happy Holidays to all
Bob
Dr. R. P.  Goldman
Catherine and William L. Magistretti Distinguished Professor in South and Southeast Asian Studies
Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies MC # 2540
The University of California at Berkeley
Berkeley, CA 94720-2540
Fax: 510-642-2409
