[INDOLOGY] Kashmir Shaiva and 'vernacular' - a question
Dear colleagues,
Many thanks for your comments!
The question has produced a string.
The question itself was produced by the book by Anton Kogan on aspects of
comparative-historical research of Kashmiri. Discussing in the 1st chapter
written sources which might contain some elements of Kashmiri in its  
earlier stage,
he analyses, among other things, words in the verses of the  
Mahaanayaprakaasha (MNP)
written in what the author of MNP labels as 'deshabhaaSaa'. Not  
surprisingly, Anton comes to the
conclusion that it is an artificial Apabhra??a based language. Unlike  
Grierson,
he doesn't think that it could be the ancestor of Kashmiri. However,  
he follows Grierson
in that he singles out in this lexis some traits characteristic of  
Kashmiri, or Dardic in general.
Thanks to the tip from Harry Spier I could go - very superficially -  
through the non-Sanskrit verses
of the Tantrasaara on the Internet Archive. It is a prakritised  
Apabhra??a with, obviously, no Kashmiri
specific traits, which is fully in accord with the opinion of Bhayani  
(see Andrew Ollett's mail).
Eric Gurevitch kindly sent me a PDF copy of Bhayani's article this  
morning. I think he doesn't mind
if I share it with anybody interested. Please, let me know if you  
would like to receive a copy.
Best wishes,
Tatiana
Nachricht von "Tieken, H.J.H. via INDOLOGY" <indology at list.indology.info>
      Datum: Sat, 1 Dec 2018 20:43:24 +0000
        Von: "Tieken, H.J.H. via INDOLOGY" <indology at list.indology.info>
Antwort an: "Tieken, H.J.H." <H.J.H.Tieken at hum.leidenuniv.nl>
    Betreff: Re: [INDOLOGY] Kashmir Shaiva and 'vernacular' - a question
         An: Harry Spier <hspier.muktabodha at gmail.com>, Artur Karp  
<karp at uw.edu.pl>
         Cc: Indology <indology at list.indology.info>
Now I become interested. Apabhra??a started its career as a literary language
as the language of popular songs sung on the streets (see the dvipad?kha??a
in Har?a's Ratn?val?, JESHO, 51 (2008), pp. 355-69).
If we had been able to ask the writers of the early literary texts
in what we tend to call vernaculars, in what language they were writing
they would probably have answered "Apabhra??a".
In this case, too, we have two answers, namely "vernacular" (Bannerjee)
and "Apabhra??a" (Spier's informant).
Is it possible to see a few examples of the passages concerned?
Herman
Herman Tieken
Stationsweg 58
2515 BP Den Haag
The Netherlands
00 31 (0)70 2208127
website: hermantieken.com<http://hermantieken.com/>
Zitat von Harry Spier <hspier.muktabodha at gmail.com>:
Prof. Dr. Tatiana Oranskaia
Abteilung f?r Kultur und Geschichte Indiens und Tibets
Asien-Afrika-Institut
Universit?t Hamburg
Alsterterrasse 1, 1. OG re.
20354 Hamburg
Tel.: 040 428 38 3385 (GZ)
Fax: 040 42838 6944
tatiana.oranskaia at uni-hamburg.de
