[INDOLOGY] Correction and updates of Nirnay Sagar Fonts
Dear Krishnaprasad,
dear colleagues, 
the Nirnaya Sagara font looks really interesting already. I just want to add some little aspects if I may. 
   First, regarding the i vocalization, I would like to know if you are restituting the historical glyphes, or if you are enhancing these. Because, if you are going to restitute the original glyphes there is no need in composing a dynamic i vocalization. Your vi?tu?ma?rha?nti example shows just two differing vocal bows of the i ? if at all ?, one more rounded and aimed at the vertical base (vi), and one straight and hence more open due to the conjunction (nti), or is it just me seeing it. If this is a consistent feature in the NirSag glyphes, it should be implemented into the font you are working on, I believe. If you are going to enhance the font, I would perhaps think about the suggestion made by Prof. Deshpande and add this feature, although admittingly it could be time consuming (I am trying it with another one). And, the less conjunctions you have in your font, the wider the vocalization will have to span its bow.
   To get an idea of the complexity regarding the font tables necessary ? once one?s adding more conjunctions and dynamic vocalizations ?, I have to recommend to take a look at the font tables of the Uttara & Chandas <http://www.sanskritweb.net/cakram/> fonts developed by Mihail Bayaryn, they?re really really impressive!
   The gaps between the aks?aras are useful for Sanskrit readers at the very start, Alessandro Graheli?s font shows that really well; would there be any chance having this ?variation? implemented into the font like upright & italic for the Latin script, but changing between gaps on and off? With a historically adequate NirSag font in mind, one would have to stick to the original typeset.
   The e & ai vocalization seems to be inaccurate though, since the glyphes in the prints are not connected to the horizontal baseline whilst o & au indeed are connected to the vertical a? base, compare s?lo?ka with ma?he?s?va?re or s?ce?ti.
   Finally, may I ask on how many printed works the font is based? For example, working with Schlegel?s typeset, there are slight differences between works using his glyphes, e.g. if you compare Speijer?s Sanskrit Syntax with B?htlingk & Roth?s Sanskrit-W?rterbuch, there are conjunctions missing (dhva, ntva, etc.) or partly missing (stra, nta, etc.) in Speijer?s. It will be useful to have a look at and compare early printings as well as later ones.
I am interested in the final font, keep up the good work!
All the best,
Raik Strunz
???????????
Raik Strunz, M.A.
Wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter
Email: raik.strunz at indologie.uni-halle.de <mailto:raik.strunz at indologie.uni-halle.de>
Tel.: +49 345 / 55 23656
Martin-Luther-Universit?t Halle-Wittenberg
Institut f?r Altertumswissenschaften
Seminar f?r Indologie
Emil-Abderhalden-Stra?e 9
D-06108 Halle (Saale)
www.indologie.uni-halle.de <https://mail.uni-halle.de/gw/www.indologie.uni-halle.de>
