culture, and practice, as well as language studies. From 2013 the program will offer an undergraduate major in
Buddhist Studies, with courses giving students a rich and coherent understanding of Buddhism, covering areas
including textual analysis, history, cultural and political context, thought, praxis, contemporary Buddhist
manifestations, and artistic expressions. The program has one of the largest postgraduate research programs in
SLC.
The program was recently expanded through the addition of an East Asian Buddhism teaching and research
curricula, developed in response to widespread growing interest in Buddhism from an East Asian focus,
particularly Chinese Buddhism.
We are seeking to appoint a Lecturer in East Asian Buddhism with a specialisation in Chinese Buddhism to drive
the teaching and research excellence of the program as it expands to become one of the leading institutions
providing the most comprehensive Buddhist Studies program.
In this role you will:
? teach both junior and senior undergraduate units
? supervise postgraduate research students in the field
? undertake administration and curriculum development
? pursue an active research program.
To succeed in this position you will need:
? to be PhD qualified in Buddhist Studies with a specialisation in Chinese Buddhism, though other areas of
East Asian Buddhism are welcome
? the ability to teach into language and non-language programs, that is, Classical and/or Buddhist Chinese
and Chinese Buddhist thought and practice
? experience in, and commitment to, teaching using Chinese language materials (and ideally, Sanskrit,
Pali and Tibetan materials)
? experience in taking responsibility for and coordinating units of study in Chinese and Buddhist studies
and a willingness to engage in group/collaborative teaching
? a proven research and publication record in the field of Chinese Buddhism
? the capacity to teach and supervise students from various cultural backgrounds
? the ability and willingness to contribute to School and Faculty administrative activities.
All applications must be submitted via the University of Sydney careers website. Visit
sydney.edu.au/positions and search by the reference number for more information and to apply.
CLOSING DATE: 3 March 2013 (11:30pm Sydney time)
The University is an Equal Opportunity employer committed to equity, diversity and social inclusion. Applications
from equity target groups and women are encouraged.
? The University of Sydney


Regards
Mark Allon
University of Sydney






-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20130117/0e5b7059/attachment.htm>

