From whitakjl at wfu.edu  Tue Sep  3 17:50:21 2013
From: whitakjl at wfu.edu (Jarrod Whitaker)
Date: Tue, 03 Sep 13 13:50:21 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Chinese Religions Job Search: Wake Forest University
In-Reply-To: <mailman.1126.1373035102.12137.indology_list.indology.info@list.indology.info>
Message-ID: <5226215D.2020602@wfu.edu>

Dear Colleagues:
Many of you work or know potential programs and/or candidates that would 
be interested in this posting. I would appreciate it if you could share 
it with them.

Cheers
JW

----------------------------------

Wake Forest University

Assistant Professor, Chinese Religions

Wake Forest University Department of Religion invites applications for a 
full-time, tenure-track position at the rank of Assistant Professor in 
Chinese Religions beginning Fall semester 2014. The successful candidate 
will have:

?         Research expertise in Daoism or Buddhism and competence in 
other religions in China, including popular folk traditions and new 
religious movements

?         The ability to place Chinese religions in the contemporary 
global context

?         Full command of relevant textual sources and the ability to 
conduct research in Chinese or relevant languages

?         Demonstrated competence in theoretical and comparative 
approaches to the academic study of religion, with preference given to 
ethnography

?         A strong commitment to excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Teaching responsibilities (nine courses over two years) will include 
introductory courses on Asian and/or Chinese Religions, and the 
development of upper-level courses in the area of specialization as well 
as courses on a selection of traditions found historically in China 
(e.g., Daoism, Confucianism, Buddhism, popular Chinese religions, etc.)

?         Demonstrated promise for continuing research and publication

?         Completed Ph.D. by July 2014 is required

Wake Forest University seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce 
to maintain the excellence of the University and to offer students 
richly varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and 
learning. For complete details and to apply, go to 
http://wakejobs.silkroad.com or call (336) 758-4700. Applications must 
include a statement on teaching and research, CV, and a sampling of 
teaching evaluations. Candidates must also supply three letters of 
reference to be sent separately by their authors to 
religionletters at wfu.edu (.pdf documents preferred, Word documents 
accepted). All application materials are due by October 25, 2013. Only 
online applications will be accepted. Specific questions about the 
position may be addressed to Jarrod Whitaker, chair of the search 
committee at whitakjl at wfu.edu. Wake Forest University is an EEO/AA employer.

--------------------------------


Jarrod Whitaker, Ph.D.
Associate Professor, South Asian Religions
Zachary T. Smith Faculty Fellow
Graduate Program Director

Wake Forest University
Department of Religion
P.O. Box 7212
Winston-Salem, NC  27109
whitakjl at wfu.edu
p 336.758.4162






