From christophe.vielle at uclouvain.be  Wed Oct  9 12:37:29 2013
From: christophe.vielle at uclouvain.be (Christophe Vielle)
Date: Wed, 09 Oct 13 14:37:29 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Ghent University Full-time Tenure Track research	position in the field of India Studies
Message-ID: <96B18BE2-406F-4DFD-9035-2CB922C51E02@uclouvain.be>

Note that it is for working in the frame of the (cultural anthropology focused) "India Platform":
http://www.india-platform.org/pages/contact
http://www.flw.ugent.be/vakgroepen?departmentnumber=LW18
Not the (classical Indology focused) "Indian languages and cultures" department :
http://www.southandeastasia.ugent.be/indology
http://www.southandeastasia.ugent.be/node/53

http://www.ugent.be/en/news/vacancies/professorial-staff/field-of-india-studies
Tenure Track position with a focus on scientific research in the field of India Studies

Last application date: Oct 16, 2013 23:59
Contract: statutair
Occupancy rate: 100%
Vacancy Type: zap
1 full-time Tenure Track position (in the rank of lecturer) with a focus on scientific research funded by the Special Research Fund (BOF) in the field of India Studies
At Ghent University 1 full-time position, with a starting rank of lecturer, will be available via the Tenure Track system with effect from 1 February 2014 within the framework of the activities of the India Platform.
The position will be granted in the following field of study:
India Studies
This is a five-year temporary appointment in a Tenure Track system focussing primarily on research, with a teaching load limited to no more than 8 credits per semester on average over a period of 3 years.
If the university board positively evaluates the performance of the person involved, the position may lead to a permanent position as senior lecturer, at which point the teaching load may be revised.
At Ghent University, the possibility of promotion in the rank of lecturer and senior lecturer is linked to the achievement of predefined personalized goals.
Profile - candidates are expected to
Hold a PhD degree with doctoral thesis and have at least two years of post-doctoral experience by the commencement of employment;
Have carried out extensive scientific research on India, proven by national and international peer reviewed publications;
Have extensive field and research experience in the relevant geographic area;
Possess the necessary didactic, organisational and communication skills for teaching at academic level;
Active participation in international scientific conferences will be considered an advantage;
Active participation in international (research) networks concerning the field of study will be considered an advantage;
Having experience in coaching Ph.D. students will be considered an advantage.
Applicants should measure up to the language proficiency as mentioned in article 91novies of the decree concerning the restructuring of higher education in Flanders.  The administrative and teaching language used at Ghent University is Dutch, but in case one doesn?t speak Dutch, it is also possible to apply.  In accordance with the decree, in case the candidate has an education assignment, one should have proficiency in the language in which one teaches.  This means that the candidate needs to have proficiency on an ERK-level (European Reference for languages) C1. Even if a candidate with an education assignment, isn?t teaching a training component in Dutch, one should have proficiency in the Dutch language on an ERK-level B2.  One should meet the requirements within 3 years after the recruitment or appointment.
Ghent University is an equal opportunities institution. Applications from female researchers are therefore particularly welcome. The university board aims at a gender balance, in which a maximum of three fifths of the academic staff with a PhD degree is of the same gender. As long as this goal is not achieved at the level of the group of scientific disciplines involved, the university board will in principle, for positions within this group, give priority to candidates of the underrepresented gender but only in case of equal qualifications of the candidates. This priority is not automatic nor unconditional; the personal situation of each candidate always needs to be taken into account in the evaluation.
Method of application
Applications
should be sent no later than October 16th 2013;
by e-mail to mailto:recruitmentzap at ugent.be;
using the specific application form for BOF Tenure Track positions. 
Proofs of competency (e.g., copies of the applicant?s diplomas) should also be sent at this stage, together with an explanation of the main research assignment of the scientific research proposed by the candidate during the Tenure Track position. This ?research plan? should comprise at least three and no more than five pages in English, together with an English summary on one page.
Please send all the documents in 1 attachment.  The candidate will receive an e-mail confirming receipt of the application.
Further information concerning this vacancy and information on the India Platform can be requested from dr. Dirk De Craemer (Dirk.DeCraemer at UGent.be).
The requisite application forms for BOF Tenure Track positions can be requested at Ghent University, Department of Personnel and Organisation, Sint-Pietersnieuwstraat 25, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium, or requested via telephone on. +32 (0) 9 264 31 29 or +32 (0) 9264 31 30. The application form is also available on the internet,https://www.ugent.be/nl/werken/aanwerving/formulieren/zap/bof-zap.doc/view
???????????????????
Christophe Vielle
Louvain-la-Neuve



-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20131009/c9567ca5/attachment.htm>

