From palaniappa at aol.com  Thu Nov 28 02:00:48 2013
From: palaniappa at aol.com (palaniappa at aol.com)
Date: Wed, 27 Nov 13 21:00:48 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] query: 18 ;"sre.nii jaatis
Message-ID: <8D0B9F4C9D056FB-7E0-8A03D@webmail-m234.sysops.aol.com>















Let me address the second part of George Hart's post first.


Hart said, "I never claimed that P??a?s were Dalits ? they were not." Unfortunately this is not true. Here is what Hart (1987: 484) said: 
"A few centuries after the anthologies, an untouchable was not allowed into a Vi??u temple, a practice shown by the exclusion of Tirupp????v?r, a P??a?, from the worship of the god inside the temple proper." (emphasis mine)

 
Another version of the same article available at http://tamilnation.co/caste/hart.pdf shows on page 32 the same statement. In the same article, on page 5, we find the following:



"We see, then, that the word pulai carries some opprobrium, and that it is used to refer to several groups that are evidently at the bottom of society?washermen, drummers, bards (P??a?s), a woman who becomes possessed, and the man who officiates at the funeral ceremony. (emphasis mine)



Similarly, on page 23, Hart says:
"Obviously, the lowercastes themselves felt that the power they dealt with was dangerous and had tobe carefully controlled?hence the plethora of untouchable castes, each with thefitness to do a certain task." (emphasis mine)




Hart says on pp. 7-8:
?Two poems, Porunar???uppa?ai 284 and Akam 196 mention that P??a?s would catch fish?one supposes if they were unable to make a living as performers?The performers, at least, lived on the margins of society, and were largelydependent on the largesse of those who were above them. We have yet to considerthe occupation of the performers in detail, but several things are clear: theywere associated with the wilderness, at least to an extent; and in addition toperforming, at least some of them caughtfish?also a low and demeaning occupation.? (emphasis mine)
 
Later in discussingthe impact of Brahmins on the Tamil society, Hart says on pp.36-37:
?The untouchables seem to have become lowerthan they had been before, and to have been surrounded with morerestrictions?no doubt as a result of the fact that king was no longer sodependent upon them (as he now had the Brahmins and their Vedic rites), andthat the small king was no longer as important as he once was, having beenreplaced by the newer gods with their Brahmin attendants. In other words, thefunction of the untouchables nolonger included serving kings?a function that must have enhanced their lowstatus?but was limited to such mundane and undignified tasks as cutting hair,washing clothes, and catching fish.?(emphasis mine)



When one sees the above two quotes, it is obvious that Hart is characterizing the P??ar as untouchables. I cannot understand how Hart can say that he never claimed P??a?s were Dalits! 





Regarding Hart's statement, "Regarding the bhakti poems, it is undeniable that the Dalits and the P??a?s were not allowed to enter temples,"  I would appreciate if Hart could provide some historical evidence (other than hagiographies) such as an inscription or traveler statement that point to P??ar being denied entry into temples.  



