From palaniappa at aol.com  Tue Dec  3 06:25:53 2013
From: palaniappa at aol.com (palaniappa at aol.com)
Date: Tue, 03 Dec 13 01:25:53 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] query: 18 ;"sre.nii jaatis
Message-ID: <8D0BE07A67D51F3-224C-A15A5@webmail-d139.sysops.aol.com>





George Hart said, "In my opinion, the poems speak for themselves.  When the Sangam poems say someone was of despised birth and we see the same group among the Dalits today, that must mean they were Dalits then, I would think." 


I apologize for the long response below necessitated by Hart's statement.  However, I summarize the key points very briefly at first to be followed by details later.



To put it in a nutshell, Hart's interpretations of what the poems speak suffer from very serious methodological problems. His views are based on his own imagination or data from a Malayalam novel or social conditions of the 20th century. His knowledge regarding modern and medieval Tamil society is very inadequate. Unfortunately, based on this inadequate knowledge, he has imagined an early Tamil society which is not supported by data from the poems themselves.


Those who are interested in the details can read on below.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ON DESPISED BIRTH
Unfortunately, there are other scholars, who do not understand the poems as Hart does. Hart (1975b: 34) described Nacci??rkki?iyar, a 14th century Brahmin commentator from Madurai, as "perhaps the greatest of the medieval commentators on the Tolk?ppiyam." Nacci??rkki?iyar has also authored commentaries on Classical Tamil texts  such as Kalittokai and Pattupp??tu. Page 1 of the attachment shows that according to Nacci??rkki?iyar, the royal funerary priest in Pu?. 363 mentioned by Hart (1975b: 82) as one 'of despised birth' was a Brahmin. Nacci??rkki?iyar also allows for the possibility of the same priest being a barber. (This is in Nacci??rkki?iyar's commentary for C?vakacint?ma?i 2984.)  Neither of them is considered to be despised or untouchable in the Tamil society. 


What is most distressing is that Hart's interpretation is often based on what the poems do not 'speak'.  Here are some examples. 


ISSUES RELATED TO SACRED POWER
Hart (1975b: 101) said, " An inauspicious state of a woman's powers is brought about by her fall from chastity. The ancient Tamil poems nowhere describe this eventuality, as they are idealized; however, it is well-treated by a modern Malayalam novel, Chemmeen, by Thakazhi Sivasankara Pillai, about the life of the fishermen of the Malabar coast, which has changed little in the last two thousand years." [emphasis mine] When the ancient Tamil poems do not speak, Hart substituted the speech of a 20th century Malayalam novel! 


Hart (1975b: 124) said, "It is true the V?la? is never called low or base in the poems, but in modern Kerala members of one of the subcastes of Pa?aiya?s are called V?la?s. One of their jobs is to tell the future, like the V?la?s of ancient Tamil literature, from whom they are no doubt descended. Furthermore, it has been seen that in Pu?. 259 a pulaitti, or base woman, is possessed by Muruka? and shakes, much like the V?la?, and that, in Pu?. 335, the Ka?ampa?, who was probably a priest of Muruka?, is classed among the low castes. In light of this evidence, it is likely that the V?la? was in fact considered a low person." [emphasis mine] Pu?. 335 does not say that the Ka?ampa? was a low caste person. That was purely Hart's own interpretation. Hart also did not consider T?vanti, the Brahmin woman in the Cilappatik?ram, being possessed by C?tta? and shaking.  Data from the Cilappatik?ram was a lot closer in time to the Pu?an????u than any 20th century data. 


Hart (1975b: 125) said, "In the Pa??i?app?lai, one of the Pattupp???u, line 77, the outer streets of a town (pu?acc?ri) are said to be inhabited by fishermen. It is quite likely that then, as now, the fishermen lived in the outer parts of the city because they were considered of low caste, probably because they were infected by the spirits of the fish they killed." [emphasis mine]  That the fishermen lived on the seashore does not call for any judgement about their caste status. The poem does not say that the fishermen were of 'low caste' or were "infected by the spirits of the fish they killed." This is Hart's own imagination.


P??AR'S RIGHT TO CULTIVATE
Hart (1975b: 140) said, "P??a?s who could not make their living by performing would catch fish, residing in their own part of the city and exchanging some of the fish for paddy (Pu?. 348; Ak. 196; Ai?. 47, 48, 49, 111). This confirms their low status: bards were allowed the low task of catching fish, but they were not allowed to raise paddy." There is nothing in the poems that 'confirms their low status' or talks about any prohibition against their raising paddy. This is again Hart's own interpretation. It should be noted that inscription ARE 476 of 1962-63 mentions a P??a? enjoying K?r??mai (right of cultivation) even in the P???iya kingdom of the more Sanskritized time of the 13th century. 


ISSUES RELATED TO PA?AIYAR
Hart (1975b: 143) said, "To a very different category than the P??a?, the concert-giver, and the dancer, belonged the man who played the ki?ai drum. It is likely that one of the names of the ki?ai drummer was Pa?aiya?, and that the modern Pa?aiya? is his descendant. Thus Pu?. 388 says that a ki?ai player plays the pa?ai (a generic term for drum), while in Pu?. 371, a suppliant packs up his pa?ai, goes to the king, and plays the ta??ri (another name for the ki?ai). In Pu?. 335, the Pa?aiya? clan is distinguished from the P??a? and Tu?iya? clan, while in the Pu?apporu?ve?p?m?lai, a later work, a verse mentions the Ki?aiya?, Tu?iya?, and P??a? as three different clans; thus it seems natural to identify the Ki?aiya? and the Pa?aiya?." [emphasis mine] There is nothing 'likely' in the poem about the Ki?aiya? being the Pa?aiya?. 


If just because a ki?ai player plays the pa?ai, he is supposed to be of the Pa?aiyar community, then a dancer who plays the pa?ai (Aka. 151.10) should also be a considered to be a member of the Pa?aiyar community. But Hart considers the dancers to be of a different category from that of the Ki?aiya?. But, then agricultural laborers played pa?ai (Maturaikk??ci 262), and the K??iyar (actors/concert givers) also were described as having pa?ai (Maturaikk??ci 523). Hart (1975b: 141) said, "It seems likely that the K??iya?s and Vayiriya?s were subcastes of the P??a?s...". So are the dancers and actors/concert givers, who are supposed to be different from the Ki?aiya?s, Pa?aiyar too? Comparing the lists of people in Pu?. 335 and the Pu?apporu?ve?p?m?lai to conclude that the Ki?aiya? and the Pa?aiya? were one and the same is like comparing apples and oranges. One listed the residents of a particular region. Another listed the people, who got shares of the spoils of war. In the final analysis, actually there is nothing to support Hart's equation of the Ki?aiya? with the Pa?aiya?. 


Hart also wanted to link the modern Pa?aiyar with those who played the royal drum in ancient Tamil society. He went to extraordinary lengths to make this linkage when the poems did not do so! This is what Hart (1975b: 144) said: 
"Elsewhere, the drum played for the king in the morning is the muracu (Pu?. 61, 397; Ai?. 448) . While there is nowhere any indication of who played the muracu, it is not unlikely that a subcaste of the Pa?aiya?s had that office, especially as one of the modern subdivisions of that caste is called Muracu."2 [emphasis mine]


As we discussed earlier, Hart not only changed the radical vowel of 'Morasu' reported by Thurston, which resulted in the name of the P??aiyar division matching the name of the drum in the poems mentioned above but also suggested that "it seems possible that this is a very ancient division." This suggestion extended the status of untouchability from the early 20th century Pa?aiyar to the ancient players of the drum. But then an inconvenient suggestion that the Morasu division members  were Holeya immigrants from Kannada-speaking region was mentioned by Thurston. The change of Kannada p- to h- occurred from the 10th century CE. So the early immigrant Holeyas (<Poleyas) could not have become the Morasu division before the 10th century, pulling the rug out from under Hart's assumption of them being an ancient division of the Pa?aiyar. This Holeya immigration issue was not discussed by Hart (1975b) or Hart (1987)!


In the whole Classical Tamil corpus, the word 'pa?aiya?' occurs only once (Pu?a. 335). The poem does not speak of the Pa?aiyar being a caste or being untouchable or being funerary priests. Early medieval Tamil inscriptions show that people with the name Pa?aiya? were high status individuals. Page 2 of the attachment shows an individual named C?kkai Pa?aiya??r of the 7th century was a warrior in the Pallava army one of whose subordinates was killed in whose memory a herostone was erected. It is important to note the Tamil honorific suffix -?r in the name Pa?aiya??r. Also the title C?kkai suggests he could have been qualified as a Sanskrit dramatist. This person could not have been an untouchable. Page 3 of the attachment shows a person by the name P?va? Pa?aiya? of the 9th century who donated some land for Vedic study in a temple. He was an  A?ukkar of the P???iya? king. The editor of the inscription called the position 'bodyguard'. But the position of A?ukkar could refer to an official position enjoying the highest confidence of the king since the general Para?c?ti of Pallava Narasimhavarman I was also referred to as A?ukkar in the Periyapur??am.  Page 4 of the attachment shows a 13th century inscription in the Coimbatore area who was a Ve????a? (which stands for Ve????a?, an upper caste non-Brahmin) with the name "Pa?aiya? Pa?aiya???a N???uk K?mu??a?". Similarly, page 5 shows another Ve????a? (written as Ve????a?)  with the name Ca?aiya? N?riy?? Pa?aiya? in the 14th century. Some argue that the name Pa?aiya? is only the proper name of individuals and not the name of a community. Even if that were true, if the name Paraiya? was associated with untouchability from very ancient times, what would be the motivation for any non-untouchable family to give their child the name Pa?aiya?? 


BARDS' SOCIAL STATUS COMPARED TO POETS' 
Another favorite claim of Hart is that the bards were of low caste and that the Pulava?s (the poets) were of high caste. Referring to the authors of Classical Tamil poetry, Hart (1975b: 148) says, "Like all writers, the authors of this poetry modeled their compositions on forms with which they were familiar. The only models  they had were the oral poems being composed by low caste performers all around them.  As a result, they took most of their poetic themes from the P??a?s and others, and even copied their life-style to an extent?though it must be kept in mind that the Pulava?s were of high caste, while the oral bards were low." This claim of Hart is also baseless. As in the case of the Parip??al 3.86, there are other instances where the poets and bards are welcomed in the poems without any indication of any hierarchy between them. The same thing can be seen in the medieval C??a inscriptions. Page 6 shows iyal pulavar (poets) and icaip p??ar (music-making P??ar) being mentioned as prospering under the rule of C??a R?jar?ja? II in the eulogy portion of a 12th century CE inscription. Page 7 shows another inscription mentioning poets and the bards as prospering under the rule of C??a Kul?ttu?ka? II of the 12th century CE.


