[INDOLOGY] The Story of Sanskrit (for Women and Non-Brahmins)
What happened at Udupi was not a 'function'. It was a conference three day
long conference with multiple parallel sessions of paper presentations and
plenaries, ashtaavadhaanam, Mahilaa vaakyaartha sadas , videos of which
were forwarded by Prof. Pandurangi to this list. This all women session of
their own stories of Sanskrit was part of the various such activities in
the conference.
Sanskrit studies in modern schools , colleges and universities being
limited to the Brahmin community or males is an obsolete information.
Right from the time of the founding of Arya Samaj, universities, gurukulas
and other institutions founded and run by Arya Samaj, a huge number of
erudite nonbrahmin and women Sanskrit scholars have been produced out of
these institutions. These women scholars went  on to found and run all girl
, all women Veda and Sanskrit institutions all over the country
proliferating women erudition in Sanskrit and Vedas.
In government institutes where Sanskrit is. taught students from diverse
social backgrounds have been opting Sanskrit. All women and all girls
institutes run by government and private managements have been offering
Sanskrit and these courses attracted considerable number of students from
diverse social in these all female institutes.
At universities, departments of Sanskrit all over the country have been
getting more number of women students than men students from very early
days. Prof. Deshpande confirmed this situation from his own experience of
his student days.
Even today that is the situation.
Apart from Arya Samaj, many modern 'Hindu' movements and :Hindu' spiritual
organisations have been encouraging women's participation in Veda ,
Sanskrit and Shaastra learning. There are many women swaminis,
Brahmacharinis and other women spiritual leaders with very good command
over Sanskrit and Shaastras.
All such ground reality not getting properly represented is what gets
countered by such vaakyaartha and sessions .
part
On Thu, Feb 21, 2019, 3:15 PM Ananya Vajpeyi via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
