[INDOLOGY] Workshop in Gupta Epigraphy at U Toronto
Dear All,
I am happy to announce the Workshop on Gupta Epigraphy at the University of
Toronto, Mississauga. Please find the description attached below and
circulate widely, especially to graduate students
The 2nd Annual Indian Epigraphy Workshop for scholars and students of
ancient South Asia will take place in Mississauga, Canada, on August 5th,
2019 through August 9th, 2019. The workshop is offered through a
collaboration between the University of Pennsylvania - South Asian Studies
Department and The Centre of South Asian Civilizations and Historical
Studies Departments at the University of Toronto - Mississauga campus. The
University of Toronto - Mississauga is hosting this year?s workshop. We
issue a warm invitation to students and scholars of religion, history, art
history, and literature in South Asia, who have studied Sanskrit for a few
years and are studying or familiar with classical and medieval India.
Participants attending this week-long workshop will learn the basics of
Gupta epigraphy, paleography, inscriptional language, and history. The
Gupta Age has been seen as the "Golden Age" of Indian civilization. Apart
from the literary and scientific literature ascribed to this time, the
Guptas and affiliated polities produced a rich material archive of
monumental architecture, sculpture, and inscriptions. The Gupta reign left
a wide-ranging body of inscriptions, in which kings, nobles, and religious
elites commemorated their pious donations and political victories. This
workshop will allow attendees access to a rich archive of epigraphic
material by giving a basic familiarity with the corpus and the tools to use
inscriptional sources in further research. Further, we will analyze
inscriptions in the context of the built landscapes in which they were
encountered and viewed. We take the inscriptions as material and textual
sources functioning within the larger context of sites and polities
Elizabeth Cecil from the Florida State University, an expert in Gupta
epigraphy,
religion, art and culture, will lead the workshop along with Daud Ali from
the University of Pennsylvania, Luther Obrock from the University of
Toronto and Jason Neelis from Wilfrid Laurier University. Each day will
consist of three sessions: A morning reading session, an afternoon lecture
or discussion, and an afternoon reading session. During the reading
sessions participants will be expected to read the inscriptions in the
original scripts with the help of experts. They will learn to use editions,
estampages, and photographs to make sense of material remains. Each day
will also have a lecture and discussion meant to familiarize the
participant with the debates spurring the field.
There are no fees associated with attending the workshop itself, and room
and board will be provided gratis to a limited number of initial
participants. It is recommended that participants apply to their home
institutions for financial aid before asking for travel accommodation
assistance.
For registration details and additional information or inquiries please
contact:
Luther Obrock luther.obrock at utoronto.ca
Daud Ali daudali at sas.upenn.edu
