From luther.obrock at gmail.com  Fri Mar 22 16:20:31 2019
From: luther.obrock at gmail.com (luther obrock)
Date: Fri, 22 Mar 19 12:20:31 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] First Annual Jainism Summer School at the University of Toronto
Message-ID: <CALM2Y+r3+GquzPnd5xJ3BayWC3KBbxz_cVCJkWe0LnBBnPP8tg@mail.gmail.com>

Dear All,

I am pleased to announce the First Annual Summer School on Jainism to take
place at the University of Toronto from July 29th to Aug. 3rd. Please see
the description below and circulate widely. We especially encourage the
participation of graduate students.

Do not hesitate to contact me if you have further questions, or if you
would like to register

Best,

Luther Obrock
luther.obrock at utoronto.ca

The First Annual Summer School on Languages of Jainism will take place in
at the University of Toronto from July 29th to August 2nd, 2019. The First
Summer School will focus on reading and contextualizing the
*prabandha* literature,
a rich archive of Jain histories, biographies, and stories composed mainly
in Sanskrit and Prakrit. These narratives often display a historical
consciousness rarely seen in other genres of Sanskrit literature, making
them essential resources for the social and religious history of the
period.  This year?s Summer School will survey the breadth of themes,
figures and places in the Jain *prabandha *literature and to consider the
historiographical challenges and potential rewards of writing the history
of late medieval India using these sources. Daily reading sessions will
examine themes emerging in a number of sources, such as Jain views of
kingship; the roles of monks and laymen as social and political leaders;
Jain technologies of power of mantras, tantras, and alchemy; the
re-imagining of sacred space and sacred geography; and the relations
between Jains and Islamicate polities.

The workshop will be led by Steven M. Vose, the Bhagwan Mahavir Assistant
Professor of Jain Studies and Director of the Jain Studies Program at
Florida International University in Miami, Florida, an expert in Jainism
and a historian of medieval and early modern western India, whose research
proposes new ways to use Jain *prabandha *literature as historical
sources. Invited
faculty include Shalin Jain and Sarah Pierce Taylor.

Each day will consist of three sessions: A morning reading session, an
afternoon lecture or discussion, and an afternoon reading session. Readings
will be mainly in Sanskrit with some in Prakrit, and an intermediate
knowledge of Sanskrit is encouraged. Each day will also have a lecture and
discussion meant to familiarize the participant with the debates spurring
the field.

There are no fees associated with attending the workshop itself, and room
and board will be provided gratis to initial participants. Travel stipends
may also be available for a few student participants; however, it is
recommended that participants apply to their home institutions for
financial aid before asking for travel accommodation assistance.

For registration details and additional information or inquiries please
contact:

Luther Obrock luther.obrock at utoronto.ca


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20190322/831f2417/attachment.htm>

