[INDOLOGY] question about a soliciation from publisher MDPI
Re: [INDOLOGY] question about a soliciation from publisher
MDPI
Reply-to: Dominik Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com>
I have written about this kind of topic quite a bit on my blog, over
the years.  I am afraid I must ask you to search it by keyword
("journal", "copyright", "open access" etc.).  Opinion pieces
include:How open is open-accessBusiness models for OA journalsCrowd-
sourcing peer-reviewWhat's the point of an academic journal?
To answer your question, I've twice published articles where an
processing fee was required for OA publication.  Brill charged ?400, if
I recall, for an article in Asian Medicine: Tradition and Modernity. 
Springer charged ?2000 or ?3000 (I can't recall) for an OA paper in the
International Journal of Hindu Studies.  At that time, these fees were
paid by my employer, who had a budget for this.  My research contract
included a clause saying that all my publications had to be Open
Access. 
There are many reasons why OA is a good thing.  A short statement of
the main issues is available in this video.  For more literature on the
issues at stake, the DOAJ.org hosts a lot of documentation and
discussion.
You say, "there are still fine journals which don't ask any such fees
and impose very low barriers to access."  This is not the case,
unfortunately.  Yes, they may be free for authors, but the many South
Asia-related journals that have been vacuumed up by Cambridge
University Press (JRAS, BSOAS, etc.) are very expensive indeed for
readers whose universities don't pay exorbitant annual license fees. 
The video above makes some of these points about half way through.
Best,Dominik
Professor Dominik Wujastyk,
Singhmar Chair in Classical Indian Society and Polity,
Department of History and Classics,University of Alberta, Canada.
South Asia at the U of A: sas.ualberta.ca
On Fri, 22 Mar 2019 at 23:50, Arlo Griffiths via INDOLOGY <indology at lis
t.indology.info> wrote:
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing
committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options
or unsubscribe)
This may also be of interest: 
UC terminates subscriptions with world?s largest scientific publisher
in pushfor open access to publicly funded research
UC Office of the PresidentThursday, February 28, 2019
https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/press-room/uc-terminates-
subscriptions-worlds-largest-scientific-publisher-push-open-access-
publicly
Best, Richard
Richard Mahoney | Indica et Buddhica Littledene  Bay Road  Oxford  NZ T: +6433121699  M: +64210640216 r.mahoney at indica-et-buddhica.org 
http://indica-et-buddhica.org/ 
