[INDOLOGY] Non-standard sandhi
Dear Jan,
Encouraged by this positive evaluation, I am sharing my reply with the list.
With respect, though, we haven't actually seen that. You claimed it, and 
I said that even if it were so, etc. In fact, I would still like to know 
on what you base that claim, as I cannot see it at all.
The sandhi problem is the same in either case, as far as I can see. 
Sahita? + asya ought by standard practice to have resulted in sahito 'sya.
But what would that mean? /In that house which is aspected by that 
[house]/ does not make any sense. And conventionally it is the planets 
that are invested with 'sight' or aspect.
The body is considered the portfolio of the first house, and, by 
extension, of the ruler of the house. So the latter is a special case of 
the former: the ruler of the first house would affect the body, but so 
would planets occupying or aspecting the first house itself.
But the 'positively' is not in the text. The fact of the house being 
aspected by the strong ruler of the ascendant is itself considered 
positive, regardless of the type of aspect.
Both Indian astrology and ancient and classical astrology generally are 
indeed clearer in their distinctions than modern western astrology, but 
that is slightly beside the point: the present question is of a more 
technical and, to some extent, terminological nature. If a planet were 
within a few degrees of the first house but not actually in it, it would 
necessarily be in some other house: either the second (which relates 
primarily to wealth and assets: dhanabh?va) or the twelfth (which 
concerns losses and the like: vyayabh?va). This is true irrespective of 
which method is used for dividing the houses: there are no empty spaces 
between them. It would be highly counter-intuitive for Y?davas?ri to 
state pleasures of the body as the only result to be expected from a 
planet actually placed in either the second or the twelfth house, even 
if it were close to the juncture with the first.
The way I understand the syntax of the verse under consideration, the 
correlates of yadg?he are, first, tatra (with tatra ... d???e ... v? 
sahit[e] indeed being a locative absolute, tatra standing in for tasmin 
for metrical reasons -- slightly inelegant, but not unusual), and 
second, asya. Tena refers to the agent of the two passive participles, 
which has to be something other than the house itself and therefore can 
only be the ruler of the ascendant. The conclusion of the verse bears 
this out: if [the planet] is in the first house (tanau), there is 
pleasure of the body, which is the domain of the first house. The ruler 
being sahita 'joined' thus clearly means being placed /in /a house 
(locative).
I take your point about not neglecting particles and so on, but in a 
metrical text, I think a madhyam? pratipad is the wisest option. 
Sometimes these little ca, tu, hi, etc., really are just there to fill 
out a line, especially if the writer is an indifferent verse-maker, or 
in a hurry, or temporarily uninspired. I speak from experience. :-)
Best wishes,
Martin
