[INDOLOGY] [Archiving Open Access publications] Re: question about a soliciation from publisher MDPI
I am scared to to tell this, that is, not all the commercial publishing
houses will be started only for profit or wealth maximization.
But as already discussed profit making businesses are in plenty.
I have started a publishing house 2 years back, to help the community. I
was not happy with the "Research institutes" already performing. Because I
am fed up seeing the bad "Directors" and  of whom the tastes are shallow
and a misconception about what isresearch and what is not.
But my institute is not "not-for-profit organization" this is because I
don't have much contacts with academic politicians and hence I will not be
funded. Another reason being is  The Companies Act is very strict and
complex and bound by the rules to start non-profit organization.
However the profit margin for all the works I do is very nominal. So that
even a poorest Sanskrit student could be able to afford it.
For instance (I am receiving many mails from Indology list asking the
details about font availability, hence writing this wouldn't be irrelevant)
The fonts are developed by the professionals and. And my I am selling them
for just INR 1150 (One thousand one hundred and fifty) approx 14 USD and
this payment is for life time and no hidden costs etc.
 (I am not sure whether USD 14 is cheap in all the countries, however in
India 1150 for 3 font families with 3 weights each, is pretty cheap,
because Unicode compatible fonts are not sold this cheap in the history)
I will shortly publish my website and post the other projects like
Raghuvamsa with Charitravardhana commentary, Apte Dictionary apps with zero
errors, Sanskrit Thesaurus etc. But all these with very nominal price I
sell them. The reason being for not having high profit motive is that,  I
have  different plan for my bread and butter. This publishing is my
passion. But still I sell them only, I  need to reach the break even.
I hope I will be supported by all.
Krishna Prasad.
On Thu 28 Mar, 2019, 1:14 PM Jonathan Silk via INDOLOGY, <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
