[INDOLOGY] question about a soliciation from publisher MDPI
It's really interesting that in this discussion none of us has actually pointed out that not only scientific publishers shouldn't ask authors to pay a fee for publication, they should actually pay us for the work we've done. If scientific publishers ask scholars to pay a fee for publication it means that their business model is wrong in the best-case scenario or they're criminals, plain and simple. Maybe the reason for all this is that scientific publishers shouldn't be run as businesses? I'm just throwing this idea into the arena, since it seems that the business-like model is now all-pervading in every single aspect of human life, even where it shouldn't.
Dr Camillo A. Formigatti
John Clay Sanskrit Librarian
Bodleian Libraries
The Weston Library
Broad Street, Oxford
OX1 3BG
Email: camillo.formigatti at bodleian.ox.ac.uk<mailto:camillo.formigatti at bodleian.ox.ac.uk>
www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk<http://www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/>
GROW YOUR MIND
in Oxford University's
Gardens, Libraries and Museums
www.mindgrowing.org<http://www.mindgrowing.org/>
Sent: 26 March 2019 17:41
Re: [INDOLOGY] question about a soliciation from publisher MDPI
Dear Herman,
It is not well known, but publishers do not have automatic rights to the copyright once a book goes into a second printing. An author has to formally request the rights at that point, but since most of us are unaware of that right, we rarely do.
Dan Lusthaus
On Mar 26, 2019, at 12:43 PM, Herman Tull via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
And there are other ways we "pay" without knowing it at all...all "free" publishers (as far as my experience goes) require that we, as authors, assign copyright to them. This means we actually lose our right to distribute them, to reprint, etc. (whether we hold to this or not). In fact, if not for jstor, I would not have access to any of my old articles, reviews, etc. in electronic form. (And, here, too there are limits, as I believe the copyright transfers to jstor).
Herman Tull
