[INDOLOGY] Non-standard sandhi
Dear Martin,
the domain in which you are specializing is fascinating and some
rudimentary knowledge of it is useful, even indispensable, for art
historians and for other Sanskritic ??stras including k?vya -- should hence
evoke a more than lukewarm interest of Indologists and readers of this
list...
I am happy that at least you consider my "analysis of [your] translation"
to be "absolutely correct" -- and it is this analysis which allows me to
indicate more precisely where I am still not convinced.
It is indeed "the nub" of my argument to take "*sahita asya* to
represent *sahita?
asya* rather than *sahite asya*" because the latter option, as we have
seen, leads nowhere except for turning an author elsewhere eager to
communicate meaning accessible to 99 percent of his contemporaneous public,
into an obscurantist who can only be fathomed by 1 percent -- plus a whole
tribe of philologists centuries later who are ready to accept suddenly, ad
hoc, a Vedic sandhi, etc., in what otherwise seems to be a ??stric text in
impeccable classical Sanskrit.
Next, trying to think in line with your argument and in the wider context
of your interpretation, what could be the syntax of the verse?
Apparently there are two options separated by v?. The expression yadg?he
asks for a corresponding term, in the first option tatra, in the second
option, I would suggest, tena (g?hena, rather than, in your interpretation,
janmalagnapatin?). Both options lead to the same result: asya ... labdhis.
If tatra and tena go with yadg?he, asya probably does *not* refer to
yadg?he -- here I would modify my previous suggestion: could it go
with janmalagnapatir? Could the janmalagnapatir, the lord of the first
house, have something to do with the own body and hence with a?gasukham?
Then, if both options lead to the same result, what could be the precise
*difference* between them? In the first, the janmalagnapati is said to be
uttamav?rya, and the house where he resides is (positively) aspected --
whether tatra ... d???e is a locative absolute or whether it is in direct
concord to yadg?he. In the second, in my suggested reading, he is not
necessarily uttamav?rya, but at least sahita with "that", i.e. with that
house. MW 1095 col. 1 gives "(in astron.) in conjunction with (instr. or
comp.)" for sahita. In western astrology, "in conjunction with" is always a
matter of plus or minus 2-3 degrees, so that a planet can be in conjunction
with another planet or even a house even if it is not squarely coinciding
or residing in it, even if it is just outside that house: possibly Indian
astrology is here more black and white, as it is also less interested in
psychological character structure etc. (as the Dutch school of
psychological astrology of Th.J.J. Ram and A.E. Thierens, the latter
predicted in 1911 the existence of Pluto before it was astronomically
perceived, and also predicted it does not have the fullfledged
characteristics of a planet), but in predicting concrete events such as
accidents, death, loss, economic success, etc.
These are just some thoughts on your interesting problem: yad rocate tad
gr?hya?, yan na rocate tat ty?jyam...
Jan Houben
On Wed, 20 Mar 2019 at 09:13, Martin Gansten <martingansten at gmail.com>
wrote:
