[INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee
Dear Friends and Colleagues,
Dr. Silk raises a valid point, which is that I am slightly vague in my
account of what has happened. I would encourage everyone to be sensitive to
the fact that other committee members have repeatedly told me, often
angrily, to not share their emails and to not discuss any of this with the
list at large. There are real risks for women who choose to come forward
with these sorts of concerns.
That said, I do point to some specific things, such as an attempt to
encourage me to resign when I pointed out bias (March 2019; in an e-mail),
refusals to talk about possible bias (numerous e-mails; fall 2018), and
persistent demands that I keep silent about what I experience as abuse and
intimidation (repeated over the past year or so). To add another specific
case, last week a committee member wrote to Dr. Paturi and chastised him
for writing 'thank you' to the entire list regarding the post I sent around
sharing Anand Venkatkrishnan's excellent blog post on female Sanskritists
and sexism. Indology members say thank you to the list all the time without
complaint, and so this was a targeted silencing of a discussion about
discrimination against women in our profession (and it worked). I think
this is a fair amount of precision and several discrete instances. I do not
know whether the intent was sexist or biased in any specific case, but the
effects were.
So far as how to move forward, I recommend a few concrete steps. All are
aimed to redirecting the committee's energy toward making both the
committee and the list a more equitable, welcoming place. (1) I want gender
parity, or at least approaching gender parity, on the INDOLOGY governing
committee by adding female members. I think everyone on this list should
value and want gender parity. (2) I want the committee to take further
steps to address bias issues, whether that is bias training, a system for
adjudicating complaints, shaking up committee membership, or something
else. Whatever we decide, I would like those steps announced to the list at
large. (3) Personally, I think that the individual who suggested that I
resign after pointing out bias should instead, himself, consider stepping
down. But I will not press this particular point.
Another thing that I wish to achieve here is awareness and space for
conversation. Indology as a discipline may be focused on classical India,
but we exist in the modern world, and modern issues of bias are a
legitimate topic for scholars to discuss on INDOLOGY (preferably without
declarations by list members that a given discussion of bias and
discrimination is inappropriate on INDOLOGY). I would like issues of bias
and discrimination treated seriously on this list and on the governing
committee going forward.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
All the Best,
Audrey Truschke
Assistant Professor
Department of History
Rutgers University-Newark
Audrey Truschke
Assistant Professor
Department of History
Rutgers University-Newark
On Tue, Apr 2, 2019 at 1:18 PM Jon Skarpeid via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
