[INDOLOGY] Unfounded accusations of Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee
Dear list,
While I cannot speak to Dr. Truschke's experience with the list, I find
much of this discussion extremely disheartening. In fact, on the one hand,
I hesitate to say anything because I am at the beginning of my career and
must keep in mind the long memories of hiring committees, publishers, and
others. On the other hand, this is why I feel I must say something. I hope
to improve the field of Indology not just as an academic but also as a
human being.
First, the private email shared below to the list moderator is especially
frustrating. Colleagues announce books, awards, etc. on this list all the
time. We ask questions about resources and on behalf of our students.
Occasionally, but less often, we discuss controversial topics and
controversies in our field. Why would we want to avoid discussing news
stories about accusations against one of our colleagues?
The message regarding the sexual harassment by Bxxx Wxxx (as stated to
protect the identity of someone against whom there were widely reported
accusations of sexual impropriety) is helpful and appropriate for many of
us on this list. Such accusations against Neil deGrasse Tyson are certainly
well-beyond the scope of this list. However, when those accusations impact
departments close to our work and individuals who we might know, they are
incredibly important for us to discuss. First and foremost, we owe it to
our community, our students, and others to ensure safety within the
university setting. When an academic in our field has been accused of
impropriety within the university, it may be difficult for us to reframe
that individual or to reconsider our own work in relation to that person.
Being dismissed for sexual harassment against graduate students is
something I think we should talk MORE about, not less. These may not seem
like academic issues to some but for many of us, navigating a
male-dominated profession, they are absolutely academic.
Women create whisper networks in which we alert one another to these
behaviors, which are often ignored by administrators. We do this to remain
safe, to alert other women to predators who may take advantage of us, harm
our careers if we turn them down, etc. The case of Dr. Wentworth was widely
reported by The Guardian and others. By the time it made it to this list,
it was well beyond the whisper network. Creating a space where we can alert
one another to these cases benefits us all. The alternative is something
like The Shitty Media Men list
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shitty_Media_Men> that reverberated through
the media just a few years ago. I, for one, would prefer transparency so
that all members of our community and field remain safe.
Second, some of the responses to Dr. Truschke's renewed efforts to discuss
these issues are aggressive and dismissive. Certainly, asking for more
concrete examples in order to understand more fully is exactly what one
might expect from scholars. Simply dismissing them with anger and annoyance
does work to silence such discussion but not to improve the place of women
or other marginalized members of the academy. If any member of our
community feels under attack, are we not here to support one another? If
the list itself is the source of that attack, should we not consider the
actions that led to those feelings?
Finally, this is 2019 and I'm sure many of us feel that we have moved
beyond sexist language and behaviors. I assure you, we have not. Every year
when it comes time to hire, women watch men less qualified than them land
their dream jobs. We receive harsher criticism from our students on our
course evaluations than our male counterparts, and we sometimes are
approached/touched/spoken to by men in ways that make us uncomfortable. We
should be able to discuss these matters openly and not just in female
circles.
Just last week a student came to me after her professor unburdened himself
by professing his feelings to her -- two weeks before the end of class and
placing her in a position where she was not sure if she would graduate
because she rebuffed his (totally inappropriate) advances. These things
happen far more often than most of us would like to acknowledge. When they
impact us and members of our field and our list, we may not agree on the
level of inappropriateness, but we owe it to one another to hear each other
out and discuss things like the professional academics that we are.
Thank you to John Nemec for his offer to quantify some of these complaints
and issues. I have spoken to Dr. Nemec personally about some of the hurdles
that women face in this field. It is not always easy to acknowledge that
our own experience is not the same for others, but if we cannot do that
within the relative safety of an email list, how can we accurately convey
the variety of religious experiences about which we study and teach?
Patricia Sauthoff
On Tue, Apr 2, 2019 at 7:39 AM Tieken, H.J.H. via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Patricia Sauthoff
Post-doctoral researcher
AyurYog.org
Department of History and Classics
University of Alberta
Edmonton, Canada
