[INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee
Many thanks again to Audrey Trushcke for bringing up this important topic
once again. It is quite something to watch men on this list present
themselves as either sensitive to the issues of sexual bias and sexism or
hasty defenders of patriarchal system. The list of allies and adversaries
writes itself.
Certainly there are differences between North American and European
educational systems. In North America we have had more -- but still limited
success -- at breaking into leadership roles and dismantling the Old Boys
Clubs that run academia behind the scenes.
To be completely clear, in no way was the advance toward my student one of
ill-timing. In addition to the one-sided feelings that were expressed there
was an offer of research, employment, and a multi-day conference trip that
also included a side trip just for the student and professor. The initial
rebuff by my undergraduate student was not an apology by her
50-something-year-old professor and an ongoing professional relationship
but yet another effort to change the student's mind about her feelings. It
was not only inappropriate but so completely clich? that it could easily be
an example of "What Not to Do 101." Fortunately, my student felt
comfortable enough with my and another (female) member of faculty to
discuss the issue with us. Fortunately again for her, the undergraduate
representative and the (female) head of the department in which the
professor works (not mine) took the complaint seriously, advising her not
to attend any future lectures and assuring my student that her work would
be assessed by someone other than the professor who acted inappropriately.
"He was trapped" is a ridiculous thing to say. By whom was he trapped? As
far as I can see, there was no "trap," simply a man in power who felt his
feelings were so important that he repeatedly felt the need to lure a
student into a situation where he could get her away from the academic
space so that he could re-express already rebuffed feelings. The only trap
here is the system in which he thought this was an acceptable thing to do.
People fall in love. We are human. Many members of our field are married to
one another or other academics. That is not the issue here.
Some are quick to side with those who have been outed as predatory without
taking into consideration the feelings and experiences of those who have
felt victimized. The lessons of the Me Too movement are apparently slow to
permeate academics. The most fundamental lesson is to *listen to and
believe women*. We do not gain by bringing up these issues and in fact are
more likely to be punished, ridiculed, called difficult or troublemakers
when we do speak up. If you want to think about how to respond, look at
some of the (predominantly male) voices who have spoken up to say there
clearly is something worthy of discussion here. Think about how you can
respond in a way that doesn't diminish or dismiss a different perspective.
Read this:
https://www.polygon.com/2014/7/24/5933565/online-sexism-what-can-be-done-women-gaming-harassment
If you find it impossible to compliment a colleague, that's on you. Perhaps
reconsidering your approach and relationship to the women whom you would
like to compliment would help. I have cultivated personal friendships with
many, many men in my life. There are men on this list that I consider
personal friends who I look forward to seeing at the yearly conferences and
other rare instances in which members of our field gather IRL. I hope that
none of my friends, male or female, would hesitate to give me (or someone
else with whom they have a relationship of mutual respect) a simple
compliment. Start out by reading their work, discussing their ideas without
explaining their ideas to them, build a relationship of respect and safety,
ask how they are doing and listen to the answer. These simple things make
future compliments genuine and appreciated.
For those who do not feel that this is an appropriate topic of discussion:
You do not have to read all the emails sent to the list. You do not have to
police a discussion that others clearly do feel is both appropriate and
important. This discussion has brought out voices that are rarely heard on
this list. That is a good thing! If you feel threatened by this
conversation, think about why. What do you have to lose by learning
something about the experiences of others?
That I have been contacted off-list by multiple women who have seen this
discussion but not been able to join in for a variety of reasons
demonstrates that this is an important, necessary, and dangerous
discussion.
I am happy to continue this discussion on or off list. The gathering of
demographic data about our membership seems like a very good idea. It will
not only give us an idea about how dominantated by male perspectives this
list is but also likely a very informed overview of the demographics of our
field. Last year at AAR we briefly discussed the disparity in Yoga Studies,
with women forging the way in modern yoga studies while men continue to
command the historical and philological fields. One of the many reasons for
this disparity appears to be the systems of academia itself, which pushes
women onto certain paths while discouraging the exploration of others.
Perhaps simply quantifying how many women here listen but do not speak will
open some eyes to the many voices and perspectives that are not represented
in this forum and allow us as a group to consider how we might be more
welcoming to all members of the list, despite our varying perspectives.
Best wishes,
Patricia
On Wed, Apr 3, 2019 at 11:19 AM Camillo Formigatti via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Patricia Sauthoff
Post-doctoral researcher
AyurYog.org
Department of History and Classics
University of Alberta
Edmonton, Canada
