[INDOLOGY] Colour symbolism in pre-modern Indic sources; concise overview of the senses
Dear Dominik,
I suppose there are color symbol systems in various systems, and in some alchemical traditions as well, but more typically one finds mentions of color in association with properties of materials, how changes in color can be brought about and used as indications of changes in underlying materials, and so on. See, for example:
http://www.ccras.nic.in/sites/default/files/viewpdf/jimh/BIIHM_1996/11%20to%2038.pdf
In medicine, likewise, specific symptomatic colors, for instance, of the tongue, are used as diagnostic tools, but an overall symbology of colors is not something I?ve seen (except in New Agey treatments). Islamic medicine considers green the color of healing (so the folks who stick rods and swords through parts of their bodies with little or no blood are said to afterwards wrap that part in green scarves or cloths to facilitate healing with little or no scarring), but I don?t know offhand of a non-muslim counterpart.
As for readings on the senses, sometimes it seems Indian Buddhists hardly talk about anything else. Anything on the 6 ?yatanas or 18 dh?tus would provide a basic account of the senses. There is a substantial section of the Sa?yutta Nik?ya called the Sa??yatana-vagga, dealing in a variety of ways with the six senses (mind is an indriya in Buddhism). That includes the following remarkable short sutta which answers the question: What is everything (sabba, Skt: sarva)?
Sa?yutta nik?ya 35
Sabba Sutta SN 35.23 SN iv 15
connected discourses on the six sense bases
23. The All
At Savatthi. ?Bhikkhus, I will teach you the all. Listen to that?.
?And what, bhikkhus, is the all? The eye and forms, the ear and sounds, the nose and odours, the tongue and tastes, the body and tactile objects, the mind and mental phenomena. This is called the all.
?If anyone, bhikkhus, should speak thus: ?Having rejected this all, I shall make known another all??that would be a mere empty boast on his part. If he were questioned he would not be able to reply and, further, he would meet with vexation. For what reason? Because, bhikkhus, that would not be within his domain.?
(Bhikkhu Bodhi?s translation)
The Pali:
3. sabbavagga
23. Sabbasutta
S?vatthinid?na?.
?Sabba? vo, bhikkhave, desess?mi. Ta? su??tha. Ki?ca, bhikkhave, sabba?? Cakkhu?ceva r?p? ca, sota?ca sadd? ca, gh?na?ca gandh? ca, jivh? ca ras? ca, k?yo ca pho??habb? ca, mano ca dhamm? ca?ida? vuccati, bhikkhave, sabba?. Yo, bhikkhave, eva? vadeyya: ?ahameta? sabba? paccakkh?ya a??a? sabba? pa???pess?m??ti, tassa v?c?vatthukamevassa; pu??ho ca na samp?yeyya, uttari?ca vigh?ta? ?pajjeyya. Ta? kissa hetu? Yath? ta?, bhikkhave, avisayasmin?ti.
best,
Dan
