[INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee
Dear Colleagues and Friends,
I have been heartened to see the supportive responses by many on this
listserv. It means a lot to see my colleagues - some of whom rarely or
never post on this list - trying to honestly grapple with our problems,
make sense of bias and its many forms, and talk about possible steps for
improvement. Going forward, I hope that we follow up on John Nemec's
suggestion to gather data about women in PhD programs (and, perhaps, job
placement thereafter, since hiring processes often involve gender bias in
the profession). I also draw attention to Herman Tull's observation that
many female Sanskritists opt out of this forum; I hope that we continue to
try to change the listserv so that more women find it a welcoming forum.
Thus far, the INDOLOGY governing committee has taken no steps to address
our problems with sexism and bias. I and others have made concrete
suggestions, and we have been met with silence. Two members of the
governing committee (besides myself) have e-mailed during this discussion;
neither response made any attempt to address the concerns of bias and
sexism raised by myself and other list members. This is unsurprising.
Inaction and flat denial of any problem are quite common responses when
women come forward with the dark side of what we face in the academy.
I suggest, again, the following concrete steps ought to be taken by the
INDOLOGY governing committee.
(1) Gender Parity. Numerous people have supported a call for gender parity
on the INDOLOGY governing committee (currently a 2:1 male:female ratio).
Let's move forward with that, now, and add 2 women.
(2) Dealing with Bias. It is unacceptable to go forward with the same
structures in place that have resulted in me experiencing, in my view,
sexist treatment, for months without recourse. We need a better system. I
have suggested conducting committee business openly or shaking up
membership on the committee. Jason Birch suggested a grievance system with
an outside mediator. We could do all of those things, or some of them. A
key point is this: The INDOLOGY governing committee needs to be committed
to taking action and showing leadership in openly trying to implement some
of these suggestions and thereby make the governing committee and the list
a more equitable place.
There has been ample support demonstrated by list members for action on
issues of possible bias on the INDOLOGY governing committee and also
interest in openly discussing, on the INDOLOGY list, a wide range of issues
concerning sexism and discrimination. I thank those who have spoken up thus
far, and I invite everyone else to please join us in making our small
corner of the academy a more equitable place.
All the best,
Audrey
Audrey Truschke
Assistant Professor
Department of History
Rutgers University-Newark
Audrey Truschke
Assistant Professor
Department of History
Rutgers University-Newark
On Thu, Apr 4, 2019 at 7:21 AM Michael Brattus Jones <mbjones at utexas.edu>
wrote:
