[INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee
I know I'm throwing myself into the lion's den, but I say this because I am
someone in a position of (relative) power and it makes sense for me to say
it: Camillo is dead wrong. The problem is one of power, and power between a
teacher and student is always and inherently unequal. It's just a simple as
that. What the teacher may think or feel (or think he/she feels) is
something he/she has to deal with privately (or with a therapist or
friend): there is never any possible way that that can ever under any
circumstances be correctly conveyed to the student. This is gender neutral:
male-female, female-male, f-f, m-m, it does not matter. It is not the
gender that is the issue, it is the power. This is not the same as between
colleagues, although even there I would say one must be extremely careful,
because there is likely also there to be an imbalance of power. I am sure
that there are grey areas; students become ex-students, etc., and I'm sure
all of us know or know of a teacher who married an ex-student and had a
long and happy life together. I do not dispute that. What I would say is
that the circumstance of ignoring the imbalance of power is absolutely
fatal*; there is no way this comes out well as long as this imbalance
exists, and I dare say (here I may be going too far, I don't know) --here I
dare to say, if you don't understand this, then just trust me on it without
understanding it, and just keep your thoughts to yourself.
Jonathan Silk
PS: I've taught both in North America and in Europe, and this is not an
issue that applies more in the former than the latter; it's a question of
social tolerance, but that is changing everywhere (I hope), and I certainly
don't mean to suggest that there are no excesses in political correctness
in any domain, but this (discussed above) is not an example of that.
*I see that this may be unclear: what I mean is that once the relationship
no longer exists of teacher-student, in theory two persons could discuss
openly their mutual attraction, but while the educational (etc) unequal
relationship exists, this is almost certainly not possible.
On Wed, Apr 3, 2019 at 7:19 PM Camillo Formigatti via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
J. Silk
Leiden University
Leiden University Institute for Area Studies, LIAS
Matthias de Vrieshof 3, Room 0.05b
2311 BZ Leiden
The Netherlands
copies of my publications may be found at
https://leidenuniv.academia.edu/JASilk
