[INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee
Dear everyone,
I am in full agreement that bias in Academia is something that needs to 
be addressed. Like others, I feel I'm not in a place to comment on the 
situation that Audrey Tuschke experienced. We have not heard from 
everyone on the committee, and I am also not sure whether this forum is 
the right place for resolving tensions in the committee.
My concern is now with a more fundamental matter as far as the list and 
its relationship to the committee is concerned. It seems to me that 
Audrey Tuschke's proposal calls for a much stronger function of the 
committee than it has had (and exercised) so far.
Having served on the committee myself for several years, I can only 
confirm what Dominik outlined in a previous post: the committee actually 
has a very minimal function. Its main task is to administer membership. 
It does not regulate communication on the list in a particularly strong 
fashion. Committee members on occasion step in if they feel discussions 
become inappropriate. But the overall assumption is still, I think, that 
communication on the list is and should be self-regulating.
It appears to me that the measures outlined by Audrey under "Dealing 
with Bias" assume a different kind of governing body, one that 
intervenes in a regulatory capacity in a stronger fashion than has been 
the case so far. There would be upsides and downsides to such an 
approach (one downside being that perhaps rather few scholars could be 
persuaded to become a part of a governing body expected to exercise a 
far more active role than it has done so far), but I think this point 
merits explicit discussion.
With best regards,
Birgit Kellner
Am 04.04.19 um 10:45 schrieb Audrey Truschke via INDOLOGY:
Prof. Dr. Birgit Kellner
Director
Institute for the Cultural and Intellectual History of Asia
Austrian Academy of Sciences
Hollandstrasse 11-13/2
1020 Wien / Vienna
Austria
Phone: +43-(0)1-51581-6420
Fax: +43-(0)1-51581-6410
