[INDOLOGY] Fwd: An Important announcement from BORI
For info to the list :
Fwd: An Important announcement from BORI
*Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Pune (India)*
*Academic Development Programme Supported by Infosys Foundation*
*Announcement*
Various academic programmes have been instituted at the Bhandarkar Oriental
Research Institute (BORI), thanks to the generous funding received from the
Infosys Foundation for specialized research in thrust areas such as
1.    Indological Studies
2.    Buddhist Studies
3.    The study of India?s cultural relations with other Asian countries in
the ancient and early medieval period, and
4.    The comparative study of religions.
An announcement of various positions has been made on the website of the
BORI. The same is being made on national and international internet
platforms and is being sent to scholars in India and abroad.
Curriculum Vitae along with detailed project proposals shall be invited
from reputed scholars.
Interested scholars are requested to send a letter of interest to the
Honorary Secretary of the BORI expressing his / her desire to conduct
research at the BORI, together with a current CV and detailed research
project. Names of eligible scholars may also be suggested by others with
their CVs and detailed research projects. The format of the research
project proposal is also available on BORI?s website.
The Search-cum-Selection Committee is authorised to nominate a scholar and
possesses the right to accept or reject any name and/or research project.
All other details regarding remuneration, logistics, etc. are being
uploaded on the website of BORI and have also been attached herewith.
For more information and queries, please contact:
Honorary Secretary
Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute
812, Shivaji Nagar, Chiplunkar Road,
Near ILS Law College, Pune 411004 (India)
Phone: +91-20-25656932
warm regards,
Shrinivasa Varakhedi
Vice-chancellor
Kavikulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University
Ramtek, Nagpur, Maharatshtra
(Recipient of Presidents Award)
Professor in Shastra and Former Dean (Academics)
Karnataka Samskrita University,
Bengaluru - 560018
Mobile : +91-94853-01353
Ph Off :  +91-7722011353
