From camillo.formigatti at bodleian.ox.ac.uk  Wed Apr  3 17:18:51 2019
From: camillo.formigatti at bodleian.ox.ac.uk (Camillo Formigatti)
Date: Wed, 03 Apr 19 17:18:51 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee
In-Reply-To: <b38693a0-9e4c-3429-972f-14c5160e21b8@gmail.com>
Message-ID: <LO2P265MB030459D0AB8046B17DB06AB78E570@LO2P265MB0304.GBRP265.PROD.OUTLOOK.COM>

Dear colleagues,

Sorry for intervening again in this discussion, but I'd like to comment on a point raised by Dr Sauthoff and taken up again by Prof. Keating. I refer to this episode:

Just last week a student came to me after her professor unburdened himself by professing his feelings to her -- two weeks before the end of class and placing her in a position where she was not sure if she would graduate because she rebuffed his (totally inappropriate) advances.

I wonder whether is a cultural difference between North Americans and Europeans regarding what is considered inappropriate behaviour bordering or being sexual harassment. I hope I can explain what I mean in a clear way. I personally believe that this professor's advances where not totally inappropriate, only the timing was inappropriate. His feelings towards this student were there anyway, regardless of the fact that he expressed them or not. He should only have waited the end of the classes, that's it. Or maybe not even, because even if he had waited, he might have unconsciously favoured this student, in the hope that she would have returned his advances afterwards. Either way, he was trapped, in the sense that it wouldn't have mattered whether he'd had chosen to express his feelings or not, by the moment he started to have feelings towards his student, his judgment as a mentor was clouded anyway. Now, I don't see why having feelings towards another adult human being should be considered totally inappropriate. Obviously, all these considerations are moot if the advance was done in a pushing way with overt sexual behaviour, but since Dr Sauthoff did not describe the advance in detail, I don't have any means to know. I'm making a general point here and I hope it is clear.

Believe, I'm not kidding when I say that now I feel I can't even make a compliment to a colleague about a new haircut or a nice dress-and I mean both a male or a female colleague-without the fear that he or she would feel harassed. This is how far political correctness has gone.

Best wishes,

Camillo



From: Malcolm Keating <c.malcolm.keating at gmail.com>
Sent: 03 April 2019 07:08
To: indology at list.indology.info
Subject: Re: [INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee


Dear all,

1. Regarding Dr. Truschke's concerns about gender parity, I would draw attention to an analogous effort being made in philosophy, which is a field that is also heavily male-dominated and has its share of problems with sexism, from egregious cases of harassment to pernicious and persistent cases of stereotyping. The idea of aiming toward gender parity in conferences has been present there for a decade now (see the "Gendered Conference Campaign" post at the Feminist Philosophers Blog: https://feministphilosophers.wordpress.com/gendered-conference-campaign/). This post includes links to some discussion about implicit bias, stereotype threat, etc. I raise the question of whether analogous efforts within Indology more broadly might not also have salutary effects.

2. I would like to echo Dr. Sauthoff's concerns about the experiences of women in academia. As another junior academic, I post to this list with trepidation, aware of its public nature and wide reach. At the same time, I have enough evidence, testimonial, perceptual, and inferential, to believe that there persist widespread problems in academia more generally, and Indian philosophy (my own subfield) more specifically. I also agree that the problems are more entrenched than what might be visible from the vantage point of most men, myself included. Perhaps these may be mostly structural, and not a matter of individual bad intentions. That possibility does not mean those of us within these structures aren't responsible for seeking solutions. And finally, if my female colleagues are speaking out at the risk of their reputations--at least in the sense of reputations for not stirring things up--I cannot simply watch. What the implications are for this list, I am in no position to say. However, I would like to add my voice to those who would like to see more discussion of how to create a more humane and equitable environment for scholars.

Best,

Malcolm

--
Malcolm Keating
Yale-NUS College | Assistant Professor | Humanities Division (Philosophy) | malcolm.keating at yale-nus.edu.sg<mailto:malcolm.keating at yale-nus.edu.sg>

Office hours may be scheduled here: https://malcolmkeating.youcanbook.me
Academic website: http://www.malcolmkeating.com/

Subject:
Re: [INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee

From:
Audrey Truschke <audrey.truschke at gmail.com><mailto:audrey.truschke at gmail.com>

Date:
2/4/19, 8:11 pm

CC:
"Indology List (indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>)" <indology at list.indology.info><mailto:indology at list.indology.info>


Dear Friends and Colleagues,

Dr. Silk raises a valid point, which is that I am slightly vague in my account of what has happened. I would encourage everyone to be sensitive to the fact that other committee members have repeatedly told me, often angrily, to not share their emails and to not discuss any of this with the list at large. There are real risks for women who choose to come forward with these sorts of concerns.

That said, I do point to some specific things, such as an attempt to encourage me to resign when I pointed out bias (March 2019; in an e-mail), refusals to talk about possible bias (numerous e-mails; fall 2018), and persistent demands that I keep silent about what I experience as abuse and intimidation (repeated over the past year or so). To add another specific case, last week a committee member wrote to Dr. Paturi and chastised him for writing 'thank you' to the entire list regarding the post I sent around sharing Anand Venkatkrishnan's excellent blog post on female Sanskritists and sexism. Indology members say thank you to the list all the time without complaint, and so this was a targeted silencing of a discussion about discrimination against women in our profession (and it worked). I think this is a fair amount of precision and several discrete instances. I do not know whether the intent was sexist or biased in any specific case, but the effects were.

So far as how to move forward, I recommend a few concrete steps. All are aimed to redirecting the committee's energy toward making both the committee and the list a more equitable, welcoming place. (1) I want gender parity, or at least approaching gender parity, on the INDOLOGY governing committee by adding female members. I think everyone on this list should value and want gender parity. (2) I want the committee to take further steps to address bias issues, whether that is bias training, a system for adjudicating complaints, shaking up committee membership, or something else. Whatever we decide, I would like those steps announced to the list at large. (3) Personally, I think that the individual who suggested that I resign after pointing out bias should instead, himself, consider stepping down. But I will not press this particular point.

Another thing that I wish to achieve here is awareness and space for conversation. Indology as a discipline may be focused on classical India, but we exist in the modern world, and modern issues of bias are a legitimate topic for scholars to discuss on INDOLOGY (preferably without declarations by list members that a given discussion of bias and discrimination is inappropriate on INDOLOGY). I would like issues of bias and discrimination treated seriously on this list and on the governing committee going forward.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

All the Best,

Audrey Truschke
Assistant Professor
Department of History
Rutgers University-Newark
Audrey Truschke
Assistant Professor
Department of History
Rutgers University-Newark
Subject:
Re: [INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee

From:
Audrey Truschke <audrey.truschke at gmail.com><mailto:audrey.truschke at gmail.com>

Date:
2/4/19, 8:11 pm




-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20190403/b134c626/attachment.htm>

