[INDOLOGY] SOAS Centre of Yoga Studies: study group on yoga and gender
Dear All
The Centre of Yoga Studies at SOAS, University of London, is holding a study group on yoga and gender on Tuesdays 5-6.30pm from 23 April for five weeks. The intention is to create small interactive sessions to share research. The scheduled sessions are listed below. Please contact me for further information or if you would like to attend.
All the best
Ruth
Monika Hirmer April 23
Playing (with) Devi?: Praxis, ma?ya? and ungendered femininity
Monika Hirmer is a doctoral candidate at SOAS researching ?Becoming the Goddess: Study of a contemporary South Indian Tantric tradition and its implications for concepts of personhood, gender relations and everyday life.?
Room: G51, SOAS Main Building
Dr Daniela Bevilacqua April 30
Yoga physical practices and female asceticism in India, an historical and ethnographic overview
Daniela Bevilacqua is a postdoctoral researcher on the ERC-funded Hath?a Yoga Project, a South-Asianist ?collecting, through fieldwork, historical evidence of yoga practice and ethnographic data among living ascetic practitioners of yoga. She conducted doctoral research on the Ra?ma?nandi? Sampradaya and was awarded a doctoral thesis from the University of Rome, Sapienza and from the University of Paris X Nanterre Ouest La De?fense. Room: G51, SOAS Main Building
Amelia Wood May 7
Power and gender in yoga
Amelia Wood is researching for a doctoral thesis at SOAS on yoga, power and gender: an investigation into the abuse of power by modern gurus.
Room: TBC
Dr Suzanne Newcombe May 14
Yoga in Britain: Reinforcing or challenging traditional gender roles?
Suzanne Newcombe is Lecturer in Religious Studies at the Open University and Research Fellow at Inform, based at King's College London. Her doctoral research at the University of Cambridge was on the popularisation of yoga and A?yurvedic medicine in Britain. She is currently working on the ERC-funded project AYURYOG ?Medicine, Immortality and Moksha: Entangled Histories of Yoga, Ayurveda and Alchemy in South Asia.?
Room: TBC
Sandra Sattler May 21
With hollow eyes and skull garlands: Fierce goddess imagery in pura?n?ic literature
Sandra Sattler is conducting doctoral research on the iconography of fierce goddesses in Hinduism. She is tracing the development of these terrifying deities, who are most popularly known as Ca?mun?d?a? or Ka?li?, by analysing selected Pura?n?as and art historical material. Room: TBC. 
Ruth Westoby
Doctoral Researcher South Asia
SOAS University of London
