[INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee
Since the 'specific' instance mentioned by Dr Truschke was pertaining to
Prof. Dominik Wujastyk's individual message to me that was later brought to
the notice of the list by Dr Truschke, I thought it may be pertinent to
share what continued after that message from Prof. Wujastyk to me.
To that message, I responded to Prof. Wujastyk and the Indology-owner id as
follows:
I honour your instruction , Prof. Dominik Wujastyk.
Prof. Wujastyk responded to me as follows:
Dear Professor Paturi,
I'm really grateful for your gracious response.
As you saw in the INDOLOGY post from Audrey Truschke, she was cross with me
for writing to you, and she said she doesn't agree that I should have done
so.  On reflection, I think I was wrong in an important respect respect: I
didn't check with the other committee members before writing under the
"committee" name.  And I was a bit impulsive.  My message had nothing to do
with you personally, in fact.  I was looking at the overall volume of
messages on the list and thinking about the signal-to-noise ratio of list
posts.  I also worry about the fact that individual posts to the list
nowadays append multiple copies of all the previous messages posted on that
topic.  I personally pay for the storage of all archived messages out of my
own pocket and also the network bandwidth used by the conversations, which
rises every year.  So I do have general concerns about conciseness and
economy of expression in the forum.  I have written to others in the past
with some of these concerns.  It's probably a Quixotic quest: few people
today think about these issues of economic data usage, although they were a
major topic when the internet was new.  Perhaps I'm a dinosour in this
respect.
Thank you again,
With best regards,
Dominik Wujastyk
I responded to him and the Indology-owner id as follows:
Dear Prof. Dominik Wujastyk,
You need not explain that this far. I understand your good intentions and
your difficult task and responsibility as the moderator. I did what I
thought is the best way a member can help the manager run a forum.
I thought responses such as thanking a member give happiness to the member
only when done in public. This thought came to me because I several times
received thanking , admiring and other such positive responses from the
members as individual mails to me and wondered about what was stopping them
from making such expressions in public.
This message from you increased my respect for you since it reveals a great
gentle and gracious attitude on your part.
Thanking you for reaching out to me.
Warm regards,
Nagaraj
On Fri, Apr 5, 2019 at 12:53 AM Harry Falk via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Director,  Inter-Gurukula-University Centre for Indic Knowledge Systems.
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
