[INDOLOGY] Sexism and Bias on INDOLOGY governing committee
Dear All,
I am not in a position to say anything about the issues that Dr Truschke
has raised on this list. When it comes to that, I find myself agreeing with
Dr Uskokov's above e-mail. I am generally very careful when it comes to
gender bias. I don't deny its existence, but I don't believe that such
issues are solved by adding female voices. Gender bias is in my view often
the result of unbalanced or inappropriately distributed power structures.
The same people that abuse female colleagues tend to abuse also less
powerful male colleagues. This observation does not acquit them, but I find
adding female voices does not automatically result in a better working
environment, if the power structures remain in place. If we discuss gender,
I would suggest we discuss it in terms of diversity.
Incidentally, today I came across an interesting read on the Guardian that
highlights the issue:
"The books that had beat Cole [my addition: author of colour] as finalists
in the best short historical romance category were all by white women, all
but one set in 19th-century Britain, featuring white women [note lack of
diversity] who fall in love with aristocrats. The heroes were,
respectively, one ?rogue?, two dukes, two lords and an earl.
What followed, on Twitter, was an outpouring of grief and frustration from
black authors and other authors of colour, describing the racism they had
faced again and again in the romance industry."
I am not suggesting that the committee needs to be regulated the way Dr
Truschke suggests. For that I don't have enough information. However, if
there is a need for change, I would suggest we start talking about
diversity rather than limiting ourselves to gender bias. I would wish to
see more Indians, people from diverse backgrounds and more "lowly"
positioned academics within the committee along with gender parity.
Best wishes,
Arash
On Thu, 4 Apr 2019 at 13:30, Uskokov, Aleksandar via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
