[INDOLOGY] Nirnay Sagar Font Regular weight completed.
Dear all
The regular weight is now complete of Nirnaya Sagar. The earlier fonts
announced as Vani Vilas is too from Nirnay sagar.
An information about Nirnay Sagar Fonts
Nitin Nimbalkar has posted an information on  Facebook and I am sharing
here.
JAVJI DADAJI CHAUDHARY.
This is the story of a nearly illiterate man who on his mere abilities
became a renowned personality in printing business of 19th century. JAVJI
was born in a poor Maharashtrian family in 1839. Having lost his father at
a very tender age, Javji had to discontinue his education at the age of 9 &
had to begin earning for his livelihood. Around the same time, Thomas
Graham of American mission had started the Mission's "Type
foundry"/printing press in Bhendi Bazar area. Javji joined the
foundry/press on salary of Rs.2/- per month & was given a work of
rubbing/polishing of Types (letter mould) in the foundry. He worked there
for 10 yrs. & made himself so proficient in  Type cutting & casting that
when the press was taken over by Times of India in 1859, Javjis service was
continued with salary of Rs.10/- per month. In 1862 Javji left TOI & joined
newly started InduPrakash press as Type-caster on salary of Rs.15/- & then
to Oriental printing press on Rs.30/- & was assigned the work of Type
founding. He mastered & further developed the art that he had  learnt in
this period  & established his own Type-foundry in 1864 by borrowing
capital of Rs.700/- from Firojshah Meharji, proprietor of Bombay Samachar &
Khuma Sheth, a money lender. His efforts in Type cutting & subsequent
inventions of Types were universally acclaimed & were in demand in foreign
countries as well. Soon in addition to Type foundry he started his own
Printing Press in 1867 in Kalbadevi area of Bombay.  Very next year in 1868
Javji undertook printing of "Panchang" (almnac) by specially cutting the
small "Types" for this work & named it "Nirnay Sagar" Panchang. Soon it was
a part of almost every house hold in Maharashtra. He therefore named his
press as Nirnay Sagar press. Sanskrit scripts had its own complexities for
composing & printing where exact pronunciation needed to be reproduced
while printing. Javji designed his own "Akhand Type" for Devnagari scripts.
His Sanskrit publications under the banner of Nirnay Sagar became famous
not only in India but all over the world where Sanskrit was studied. He was
awarded Justice of Peace in 1892. Unfortunately in the same year he
breathed his last after a brief illness. During his working span his
foundry established 20 Marathi Type fonts, 40 English, 15 Gujarati and
Hindi, 2 Hebrew & 1 Kannada Type fonts. Besides, he had casted 7 varieties
of Types specially for (Vaidic) Sanskrit. In his life time Nirnay Sagar
press published & printed 193 Sanskrit & 228 Marathi books of its own & the
press and foundry together had employed 250 workers. His legacy was carried
on by his son Tukaram Javji. The father son duo was honoured by naming two
roads in Bombay's Tardeo area after them.
