[INDOLOGY] The Story of Sanskrit (for Women and Non-Brahmins)
Dear Mrs. Ananya Vajpeyi,
I appreciate you for responding to my mail on the other side of story of
Sanskrit. Due to hectic schedule for last two months, I could not get time
to write back to you. Hope, by now you might have watched the links that I
had shared with this list. I am sure that will certainly provide you
another picture of the same storyline.
Yes, I really get your point. You are right. There exists dichotomy in
every society. Bringing change in the mindset of the society takes time. We
need to think, argue, discuss, deliberate, write, criticise, teach ...and
to wait for ?THAT? change you and me are aspiring for.
My urge is to leave the age old ?purusha sukta? stories and work on the
current situations. Yes, we cannot deny the experiences of Mrs. Panwar. We
should not. But, beyond that there is something else also to see.
Generalisation in either side is a ?danger?. It does not lead to any
conclusion. As you rightly said it requires ?mutual respect? from both
sides. It is unfair to deny the ?experiences? of Panwar ; it is equally
unfair to deny ?experiences? of others with similar conditions. As you have
said society is full of dichotomies, we academicians can not take sides.
Our job is to be objective and guide the society on the right track. One
sided creations are objectionable. Any such push will lead to ?Vancouver?
event. I believe the organisation of the Vancouver event was not properly
conceived due to one sided representation of the panel. Post Vancouver
discussions including your column in the Hindu again focused on the
reaction part of the event. However, in my opinion it missed the points
that need to be understood.
Here the point to be noted is : it is easier to discuss the discrimination
sitting in AC seminar halls. But, working on the grass root level to bring
changes with a positive mindset is not so easy. In our dialogue, we are
also missing the real heroes. Aren?t we ?
You are a wonderful researcher. It?s expected out of a sincere researcher
to do some objective research and also showcase  the change that is seen in
transformed India  along with work that is still needed to be done, that is
the transformation of rigid closed mindsets, which is still operating as we
experience.
On these lines, our effort was to go for some reality check. We did some
experiments in UDUPI conference. We placed the same here (event links). I
was dismayed for not getting a single response from the people in the list
who were earlier discussing a lot about the Vancouver event. Moreover truth
just does not lay with one Panwar, but many such Panwars are also not
heard.
I acknowledge your point on self examination and self criticism. The same
?rule? applies to all. The people without making any effort to gain
knowledge will shout and try to create a Dias for their stories. But, who
will stand for those, who create histories ?  See the links bellow :
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EpNyBKee_3Q
You will find similar efforts in many places. Our humble request is to
provide space for them too, so that they can expand themselves in such a
way that no more chances for ?panwar-feelings? continue in society. This
?inclusiveness? also deserves all ?inclusive? space.
While empathising for the experiences of Dr. Panwar, I dissent with her for
her half cooked interpretations of old passages without proper studies. I
urge her to stop telling stories. Instead, she may spend her valuable time
to study well and challenge the same society. Knowledge brings ?respect?.
The strong response from the audience on that day was neither towards her
experiences ; nor towards her position. It was all about the management of
the event.
I personally do not want to take part in such debates. Unfortunately I was
a witness of the event where no ?constructive take home message? was
delivered. The hunt for an answer prompted us to make these small efforts.
Let?s continue to work together to create atmosphere for fruitful dialogue.
Warm regard,
SV
On Thu, 21 Feb 2019 at 5:50 PM, Ananya Vajpeyi via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
warm regards,
Shrinivasa Varakhedi
Vice-chancellor
Kavikulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University
Ramtek, Nagpur, Maharatshtra
(Recipient of Presidents Award)
Professor in Shastra and Former Dean (Academics)
Karnataka Samskrita University,
Bengaluru - 560018
Mobile : +91-94853-01353
Ph Off :  +91-7722011353
