Dear Matthew,
In my booklet Aux origines de la philosophie indienne (Gollion: Infolio ?ditions, 2008), I tentatively propose a historical understanding of the evolution theory of S??khya. Put briefly, I suggest that a synchronic enumeration of primarily psychological elements came to be reinterpreted in diachronic evolutionary terms that fitted notions of repeated creations. This resulted in the telescoping of two different domains, the one microscopic, the other macroscopic. (pp. 56-58). Once saddled with this tradition, subsequent tradition could not but try to make the best of it, with results that are not always convincing. (p. 78-84; see also pp. 92-94).
I have elsewhere drawn attention (in "The contradiction of S??khya: on the number and the size of the different tattvas." ?tudes Asiatiques / Asiatische Studien 53(3), 1999, pp. 679-691) to the tendency of S??khya to understand its evolution in terms of an ever decrease in size in subsequent tattvas. I do not know to what extent this last observation is relevant to your question.
Best wishes,
Johannes
On 28 May 2019, at 10:28, Jan E.M. Houben via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Dear Matthew,
Apart from the direction of evolution/emanation (by and large I agree here with Viktoria), another, closely related problem is a (supposed) 'confusion' between 'cosmology' and 'psychology' that has puzzled modern students of S??khya. Here is a quotation from an article of mine touching on this problem -- especially because of the references to and discussion with Eli Franco and Johannes Bronkhorst which this quotation implies:
?If it is recognized that the range of rationality remains always limited and can neither dispell all irrationality from the perceptual foundations of knowledge, nor that of inherited or adopted conceptual schemes as fundaments of thinking, the association or ?confusion? of ?cosmology? and ?psychology? to which Franco and Bronkhorst have recently drawn our attention, but which troubled already the first Indologists who dealt with S??khya (Max M?ller 1899: 294), may be regarded as primarily a matter of perception ? a perception of man and the cosmos as one or homologous, a perception which much of early South Asian myth and ritualism seem to reflect and foster ? rather than a matter of deviant or defective reasoning. Attempts in the ?second flourishing? of S??khya and especially those of Vij??nabhik?u to reorder this ?confused? perception, cited by Bronkhorst (1997a, ms. p. 11) as showing that the confusion was indeed there, could then be attributed to a different world perception or world conceptualization rather than to an increase of rationality.?
??Verschriftlichung' and the relation between the pram??as in the history of S??khya.? ?tudes de Lettres 2001.3: La rationalit? en Asie / Rationality in Asia: 165-194.
p. 180-181
So what is your theory?
Jan
On Tue, 28 May 2019 at 10:12, Dan Lusthaus via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Dear Matthew,
A couple of things to consider.
First, scholarship has mostly focused on ?classical? S??khya, i..e., S??khya-k?rik?, etc., but this is already quite late in the development of S??khya thought, and most of the earlier literature is no longer available, aside from texts that allude to those early S??khyan models without fully detailing them, such as the Bhagavad-G?t?, A?vagho?a?s Buddhacarita, etc.
One clue we get from the G?t??s treatment of puru?a and prak?ti is that the radical separation between them characteristic of ?classical? S??khya has not yet set in. Which implies that the version of the 25 tattvas adopted in the Yoga-system may be more in tune with earlier S??khya on that account than what became codified in the k?rik?s, etc. (The Mok?adharma section of the Mah?bh?rat?, which is considered a late section, offers a 26 tattva model alongside the 25 tattva model, providing a universal self as the 26th, indicating, at the least, that at some point conflicting models were in play). There are a variety of differences between the G?t??s account and the classical version, such as the classical account treats puru?a as not only sequestered away from prak?ti is a variety of ways (it has no emotions, etc., which are all on the prak?ti side) while the G?t??s puru?a does feel and experience and is active; classical puru?a is radically passive while the G?t??s puru?a has active capabilities, feels pain, etc.; and the classical puru?a is radically singular (while each individual has its own puru?a), but the G?t??s puru?a is threefold (k?ara puru?a, ak?ara puru?a, param?tman; cf. BG XV 16-19); and so on. There are also items and lists mentioned in other early texts that they associate with S??khya but which were  no longer included in the classical system, indicating important aspects of early S??khya remain obscure to us.
Classical S??khya, unlike the G?t?, had a problem explaining how puru?a and prak?ti interacted, and a theory of buddhi, the first tattva engendered by the three gu?as, reflecting the light of puru?a so as to illuminate the rest of prak?ti. The separation between puru?a and prak?ti became further reified when western scholars turned them into ?spirit? vs ?matter?, bringing in distortive baggage that utterly obscured how prak?ti was conceived in S??khya, and an example of how an eagerness to project familiar models onto alien concepts can obscure what one is observing. To quickly illustrate, which of the following would anyone in the west consider ?matter? rather than ?mental? or ?cognitive?:
intellect, ego, mind, hearing, feeling seeing, tasting, and smelling.
i.e., buddhi, aha?k?ra, manas, and the buddhi-indriyas.
These are tattvas #3 through 10 of the 25. (#1 is puru?a, #2 is the three gu?as).
While the effort to attribute higher cognitive function to puru?a by stripping away prak?ti?s cognitive functions, or the underlying cognitive capacity that animates them was already attempted in later expositions of classical S??khya in India in a variety of ways, the ?spirit? vs ?matter? superimposition rendered the model incoherent, and misconstrues how the tattvas relate.
