[INDOLOGY] Crowdfunding for Gandhari manuscripts
Dear list members,
The initial response to our crowdfunding campaign to support the ongoing study and conservation of Gandhari manuscripts has been excellent. We have received numerous requests for further information from interested scholars in both public and private communications, in response to which we have updated the crowdfunding page with further details on the state and status of the scrolls and how the funds will be spent (https://crowdfunding.sydney.edu.au/project/10335/updates/1). Further updates will be given on the site as we move from funding into implementation of the project.
Thank you to all those who have supported this initiative so far and please pass on the crowdfunding request to your own networks.
Best wishes
Mark Allon
Richard Salomon
Paul Harrison
Dr Mark Allon
Chair, Dept. of Indian Subcontinental Studies
The University of Sydney
Australia
Sent: Friday, 3 May 2019 5:45 PM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Crowdfunding for Gandhari manuscripts
Dear Mark,
thank you for your post ? this is very interesting, both the material and the crowdfunding experiment!
I have three questions about the two scrolls and the plans you have for them:
   1. How extensive are the preserved texts? Some other fragments
      of the Pratyutpannabuddhasa?mukh?vasthitasam?dhis?tra scroll
      were just published in JIABS
         Harrison, Paul, Timothy Lenz and Richard Salomon. 2018.
         ?Fragments of a G?ndh?r? Manuscript of the
         Pratyutpannabuddhasa?mukh?vasthitasam?dhis?tra (Studies
         in G?ndh?r? Manuscripts 1).? Journal of the International
         Association of Buddhist Studies 41: 117?143.
      but those amount to a total of only eleven partial lines:
         https://protect-au.mimecast.com/s/l_HNCnxyErCBlg4ws9s7BN?domain=gandhari.org
      Are the new fragments more substantial? Concerning the
      Sam?dhir?jas?tra, only the left half of the scroll appears
      to be preserved, i.e., half of each line will be missing.
      How many lines are in that fragment?
   2. Which concrete tasks do you plan to use the funding you
      raise for ? research assistants, travel, equipment? The
      crowdfunding description only has a very general reference
      to ?research, consulting and resources.?
   3. Images of these two scrolls in their rolled?up state (like
      the one you show on your page) were circulated fifteen years
      ago by a London?based art dealer looking for a buyer. Are
      the scrolls with you in Sydney now? Did you buy them?
All best,
Stefan
Stefan Baums, Ph.D.
Institut f?r Indologie und Tibetologie
Ludwig?Maximilians?Universit?t M?nchen
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info<mailto:indology-owner at list.indology.info> (messages to the list's managing committee) https://protect-au.mimecast.com/s/kEtwCoVzGQiWl5A9Szt8OY?domain=listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
