[INDOLOGY] Call for Papers AAIS first Annual conference
Dear Dr Tyler Williams,
Your post below has many expressions that deserve response.
You accuse AAIS as an organisation that divides scholars studying Indic
Civilization into "we Indians" and "they the Western". The very fact that
the CFP is shared on this forum where a very big number of western scholars
are members and it is inviting all the members to contribute to the
conference, shows that no such attitude of only Indian no western
participation in the study of Indic Civilization exists in the CFP or in
the organization that shared it here.
While the CFP is being posted by a scholar dedicated to the study of the
discipline of History , you say that the CFP and the organization sharing
it are opposed to the discipline of History. " Religious Studies" is a
discipline that does not exist in any Indian university and exists only in
the west. The person sharing the CFP has a PhD degree in that discipline.
You say that the CFP and the organization sharing it are opposed to
'western' disciplines. You say that the organisation represented by the
scholar sharing the CFP calls "History", a western discipline and is
opposed to it while the fact is that she is a professor of that very
discipline History.
Your post characterizes and caricatures the Indology list as a forum of
left leaning intellectuals who consider only the left leaning/ Marxist
Indian scholars as "our Indian colleagues" . I don't think Indology list is
such, though, there is a possibility of scholars with such a leaning being
in good numbers here.
More agonizing is the repeated use of words such as "harassment" and
"violence" in your post. You say that this harassment and violence happens
to " our" non-Maoist  "  Indian colleagues" because of conflating them with
the " Maoist rebels ". You mention the word " Urban Naxals" which is the
title of a recent book by Sri Vivek Agnihotri. That book starts with the
description of an incident of violence against him. It is not clear whether
the violence against him described there was the act of Maoist rebels are
the Marxists who are not Maoist rebels but allowed they getting conflated
with the Maoist rebels. That apart, such incidents prove who, in Indian
academic institutions, for all the past decades after independence,  have
been in a position of committing "harassment" and "violence" against those
who disagree with them.
In any case, singling out the "harassment" and "violence" against only
scholars of a certain political leaning and ignoring harassment and
violence against scholars of other kind of thinking is blatently visible in
your post.  Baselessly linking the  "harassment" and "violence" against
only scholars of that political leaning with the organization sending the
CFP is what is objectionable in that approach.
You bring back the last WSC discussion saying , "in order to suggest that
the conflict was between Indians and westerners took on the quite literal
form of *not allowing the marginalized women to speak*." after the
organisers clarified that violence and not allowing were not facts and the
discussion in that regard was closed here after that clarification.
Your words
"In other words, in making the argument out to be between "we Indians"
versus "non-Indians," the organizers elide the fact that South Asian
knowledge systems, by and large as they come to us, were produced by elites
that were oftentimes involved in marginalizing other groups."
while putting into the mouth of the organizers the non-existing attitude
of  "the argument  to be between "we Indians" versus "non-Indians," ",
makes the perception
"that South Asian knowledge systems, by and large as they come to us, were
produced by elites that were oftentimes involved in marginalizing other
groups"
to be a fact.
What is the purpose of academic forums and conferences if it is not to
discuss such fact-perception differences and such  claims which are
contestable and debatable.
You list one kind of post-colonial studies
which has theorizations such as
1. colonialism (and its epistemological violence) were carried out by
European *together with *members of elite South Asian communities,
 2) due to that epistemic rupture it is no longer possible to access some
kind of "pure" indigenous knowledge or understanding,
as THE (only) post-colonial studies paradigm
and don't show the diligence that other approaches to post-colonial studies
are possible.
It does not reflect nuanced understanding and intricate understanding of
issues such as Orality and Literacy, history of accessibility of certain
kinds of texts in comparison to the other kinds of texts due to the history
of European scholarly attention to certain texts in comparison to the other
kind of texts and the projection of that colonial and European lack of
accessing and lesser prioritization as "silencing" by the authors of the
texts accessed by the Europeans.
Yes,   "academics have a responsibility to listen to marginalized and
formerly silenced voices of history (and the present)"
Paradigms alternative to  those of the post-colonial studies listed by you
under your # 1 & 2 above,
and countering views to the
views such as
"that South Asian knowledge systems, by and large as they come to us, were
produced by elites that were oftentimes involved in marginalizing other
groups"
that have been made into the global academic mainstream using the global
political power
are the ones currently globally marginalized  and global academics have
responsibility to listen to these alternative views.
On Thu, Jun 20, 2019 at 11:12 AM Tyler Williams via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Director,  Inter-Gurukula-University Centre for Indic Knowledge Systems.
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
