[INDOLOGY] Call for Papers AAIS first Annual conference
Thanks Prof. Jan E M Houben for your words of good heart " hope that this
List will remain a place where scholars, regardless of their political,
philosophical, ethical ... orientation, will continue to feel welcome to
announce their conferences and "conferences".
This is all that I hoped when Prof. Lavanya Vemsani posted the Call for
Papers.
I had to respond when Dr Tyler Williams posted saying that the List should
not remain a place where scholars, regardless of their political,
philosophical, ethical ... orientation, will continue to feel welcome to
announce their conferences and "conferences.
Dr Tyler Williams,
Thanks for posting a link to my writing on an other public forum
<https://groups.google.com/d/msg/bvparishat/cbthNAM0jNc/ldkQ5bpNBgAJ> and
save a lot of my efforts in explaining why I consider calling posts that
provide counter arguments to left-leaning or Marxist posts alone as
'political' and opposing them on that basis as wrong. Such an approach is
wrong because the left-leaning or Marxist posts are blatantly political and
countering them too needs to be obviously political. my writing on an that
public forum
<https://groups.google.com/d/msg/bvparishat/cbthNAM0jNc/ldkQ5bpNBgAJ> was
saying exactly that. When a respected professor asked the members of that
forum to avoid political positions, I was telling him that there was no
need for such an urge to avoid 'political' .
By saying,
", your response avoids the question of violence and harassment of these
faculty and students by suggesting that a condemnation of violence against
a group must necessarily condemn violence against all groups at all times
in order to be authentic. This is just another example of the fallacious
"whatabout-ism" (e.g. "All lives matter" versus "Black lives matter") that
is the hallmark of right-wing and fascist movements of the present day " ,
it is you who avoided the question of violence and harassment by the left
leaning and Marxist faith whether of the Maoist armed struggle path or the
electoral politics path . And  you saw hallmark of fascism in my showing
that you were silent about (now I see that you even justify) one kind of
harassment and violence.
You pointed out from that post that I make distinction of Indian and
western academics. When did I say I do not make that distinction ?
I was saying that the CFP posted did not have the approach of western not
welcome.
In my case while I recognise the obvious distinction between Indian and
western academics, I also recognise that those who project Sanskrit as
toxic etc. are there on both these sides of academics. I continue to
academically debate with those who take such stances  against Sanskrit,
India, Indic culture including Hindu culture etc. whether they are Indian
or western.
You were mentioning Indian constitution and threat to its foundations from
certain groups. That the left leaning and Marxist groups aim to replace the
present multiparty democratic foundations of the Indian constitution with a
single party dictatorship either through an electoral or through an armed
struggle based power capturing does not need any investigation because it
is their avowed philosophy. Can there be a greater fascist philosophy than
that?
I was not even asking for your fruitful or otherwise engagement with AAIS.
I was only pointing out the flaws in your post that was suggesting that
"the List" should not "remain a place where scholars, regardless of their
political, philosophical, ethical ... orientation, will continue to feel
welcome to announce their conferences and "conferences."
Best wishes,
Nagaraj
On Wed, Jun 26, 2019 at 3:20 PM Tyler Williams <tylerwwilliams at gmail.com>
wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Director,  Inter-Gurukula-University Centre for Indic Knowledge Systems.
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
