[INDOLOGY] ISO15919 and case insensitivity
Dear All, thanks for your comments about the ISO encoding issue. In hopes
of keeping the discussion afloat, here are some responses.
Rolf Heinrich Koch's problem seems to relate to the Unicode standard and
not to ISO15919 or any other specific encoding system. I have no first-hand
knowledge, but I think the unicode consortium can be approached to
designate code points for additional Latin letters with diacritical marks;
I think, however, that this is a complicated and lengthy process that
carries little chance of success since the combination in question seems to
be needed only by a very small population of scholars. It is, however,
always possible to use a combining diacritic to generate the character m?
(or, according to ISO15919, m?). For this, use a regular m followed by the
character U+030C (floating caron) or, for the latter, U+0306 (floating
breve). Similarly, r and l with circle below (used instead of the IAST
underdot to represent vocalic r and l) can only be typed as such a
combination.
To George Hart's problem, as pointed out by Heinrich, a partial solution is
already present. ISO15919 prescribes ? and ? in Sanskrit texts/words of a
mixed corpus that includes languages where short and long e/o are
distinguished. As a nod to IAST and the widespread practice of
Sanskritists, it _allows_ e and o for these long vowels so long as they are
used in a Sanskrit-only corpus. I agree that the situation is not ideal,
but - rather than persuading Sanskritists to use ? and ? consistently - the
way to improve it may be the use of language tagging, so that any segment
of transliterated Indic text can be recognised by a computer as belonging
to a particular language.
For the issues raised by Tyler Williams: I think the first one (alternative
glyphs for the same phoneme) is beyond the scope of transliteration and
belongs either to a palaeographic description or, if machine readability
and indexability are desired, to the sphere of markup. As for the second, I
would be interested in some further details, on or off list. Are any vowel
m?tr?s other than what would normally represent an ? used in such a way?
Could you give some examples, what language, time period, and what does the
addition of an extra m?tr? signify? Arlo and I have been thinking about a
way of representing one particular case of this, and if there are other
related phenomena, then knowing about them would help us propose a solution
that can be extended to those.
To Andrew Ollett's caution that using uppercase Latin letters for final
consonant forms may not be better than adding the transliteration
equivalent of a vir?ma (and likewise, uppercase for independent vowels
versus a special marker attached to the transliterated vowel), I can only
say that I also have no strong argument for this usage. The weak arguments
for would run like this: 1. better grapheme-to-grapheme matching between
the original script and the transliteration; and 2. actually, easier
automated processing in some cases at least, e.g. a basic case insensitive
search would still find the expected results in a transliterated text that
uses uppercase for these purposes, while the search algorithm would need to
be devised to ignore the additional marks for independent vowel and vir?ma.
The same applies to downcasing the text for conversion to Devanagari - it
should be no problem. I should add that we do want to retain a special
vir?ma equivalent for glyphs with an explicit vir?ma, though this is also
slightly problematic, e.g. in case of the "proto-vir?ma" comprised of a
small dash or arch on top of a subscript final consonant form
The very best to everyone,
Daniel
On Thu, 20 Jun 2019 at 19:00, Andrew Ollett via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
