[INDOLOGY] Call for Papers AAIS first Annual conference
Dear Dr. Paturi,
Thank you for your reply to my message concerning the American Academy of
Indic Studies (AAIS); your reply illustrates two of the major reasons that
other colleagues and I feel that a productive scholarly engagement with the
AAIS and similar organizations is not possible.
The first reason is that the AAIS and its organizers are not speaking or
acting "in good faith": the presence of numerous contradictions and
inconsistencies in the AAIS's own statement regarding its aims, methods,
and broader intellectual project and its misleading use of scholarly terms,
not to mention the fact that it takes positions on politically-charged
topics while declaring itself "non-political", suggests that it is not
being transparent about its scholarly, intellectual, or political
orientation and program. I do not believe that it is possible to have a
rational, intellectual dialogue with organizations or individuals that
attempt to obfuscate their own ideological and intellectual commitments and
that willfully distort their interlocutors' statements and positions.
Similarly, your response to my statement does not engage substantively with
any of the issues I have raised nor does it offer a nuanced reading of my
statements, but rather attempts to invert their meaning through the tired
and rather transparent trick of suggesting that those who point to social
or ideological divisions are in fact trying to create those divisions. In
the US, we are familiar with this hallmark of right-wing propaganda through
examples like "Advocates of racial justice are racists because they always
bring up race," while those in India will be familiar with the right-wing
cliche that "Dalit activists are casteist because they see caste in
everything." Such a bad-faith reading and response to my statements hardly
requires any further analysis. At the same time, your writing on other
public forums
<https://groups.google.com/d/msg/bvparishat/cbthNAM0jNc/ldkQ5bpNBgAJ> about
supposed divisions between "Indian" and "Western" academics reflects that
you do, in fact, believe in this distinction
<https://groups.google.com/d/msg/bvparishat/cbthNAM0jNc/5L8OKuRwBgAJ>,
though you demure from acknowledging it here. Again, it is difficult for me
to see this as a dialogue made in good faith.
The second reason for our anxieties regarding the AAIS is the lack of
respect shown by some (though, it must be said, not all) of its organizers
for basic collegiality and freedom of speech and thought. These individuals
have clearly stated on public forums their preference for a Hindu
majoritarian state over India's current structure of a secular republic,
their belief that secularism produces bad scholarship and that left-leaning
Indian intellectuals are part of a Maoist-led conspiracy to destabilize
India; they have accused their colleagues and their own students of
sedition, and have tried to publicly justify violence against Indian
university faculty and students at the hands of both the state and also
non-state actors like the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad.
Similarly, your response avoids the question of violence and harassment of
these faculty and students by suggesting that a condemnation of violence
against a group must necessarily condemn violence against all groups at all
times in order to be authentic. This is just another example of the
fallacious "whatabout-ism" (e.g. "All lives matter" versus "Black lives
matter") that is the hallmark of right-wing and fascist movements of the
present day. This kind of equivocation reflects such a deep level of
cynicism that I frankly have nothing to say about it.
In summary, until the AAIS and other such organizations demonstrate that
they can act in good faith and with respect for the rights of all members
of the academic community, I cannot see a possibility for fruitful
intellectual engagement with them. Similarly, you and I have such vastly
different notions of what constitutes intellectual honesty and basic human
decency that I do not believe that we can have a productive exchange or
correspondence; therefore I suggest that we end this thread here, unless
anyone else has something to add.
Sincerely,
Tyler Williams
On Tue, Jun 25, 2019 at 5:46 PM Nagaraj Paturi <nagarajpaturi at gmail.com>
wrote:
