[INDOLOGY] Supporting each other in public
Dear listfolk,
According to list rules, "members will be expected to maintain
commonly-accepted standards of decorum in their postings to the group.
Contributions are expected to be polite and well-considered. (?) In
particular, personal attacks of an ad-hominem nature, rude language,
and off-topic postings are violations of the list rules."
By that criterion, Patricia's attack on me was a multiple violation of
list rules. It had nothing Indological and was thus completely
off-topic. It was not exactly polite, and it was very much a personal
attack. To use Antonia's words, it aimed "to sow unacademic dissent
among individuals". In her last mail Patricia sounds more
conciliatory, which is a good development and for me a reason to leave
it at that.
But not, it seems, for others. When I read these attacks, I thought:
whatever I write in response, quite a number of list members, whether
they speak up or not, are going to blame *me* for *her* politicization
of their nice list. And any aspect of anything I write will be held
under the magnifying glass by pedants trying to find fault with it.
This has happened in the past, and sure enough, it is happening again,
though so far in low key.
Thus, Antonia here reads these attacks, takes them in stride as if
perfectly normal, then reads my reply, and suddenly, after all this
rough riding, becomes very touchy-feely when reading my first
description of these same attacks as a "screaming tirade". I think
those words are pretty mild compared to what I have been called, and
pretty accurate: a "tirade" means a "serial shooting", and it was
indeed an enumeration of various claims that were each calculated to
damage me. The word "screaming" evokes the mood in which she seems to
have written it. This part is admittedly only intuitive, maybe late at
night my perception was less than perfect, I don't mind dropping that
word. Morning has broken.
Then follows the predictable call for a ban. Apparently in the
Indology Soviet, list rules should be changed so that SJWs are free to
attack dissidents but the latter are prevented from responding. All
this under cover of esoteric jargon like "dog whistle" and
"gaslighting". (Not that these novel concepts couldn't be useful.
Thus, the Indian partial inversion in meaning of "secularism" from its
original European meaning would be a fine example of "gaslighting".)
Note also a very morbid streak in the SJW worldview: its
conspiratorial thinking. Thus, "there is nothing unintentional about
this and it is a performance for those lurkers who silently agree. It
is meant to bait those who do not agree into 'debate'" etc. I know
SJWs don't like debate, for they would lose on any subject that
matters here, and also on principle: in their totalitarian utopia,
there is simply no room for debate. There should be diversity in skin
colour, sexual orientation etc., but not in opinion. That's why they
always come in the news when, in Oxford or so, they have managed to
prevent or shut down another debate.
And then these gifted mind-readers claim to know what unstated purpose
is actually "meant" when I simply answer an e-mail. No innocence
anymore, everything is part of some political strategy. Those who try
their hand at pop-psychology against me ("full of anger") should
tolerate that I psycho-analyze that trait as a *projection* of their
own stand in the world. And now we get to read that the length of my
mails is a "technique" to suck people's energy. It is sick to
postulate an ulterior intention behind my response e-mail's length,
which was only determined by the number of allegations that I had to
answer. Nevertheless, I'll stop here.
But not without affirming that at my age, I have a right to talk
"condescendingly" to trespassing youngsters. I can only hope they
learn from it, that's what we're here for.
Kind regards,
K. Elst
On Sun, Jun 30, 2019 at 3:42 AM Uskokov, Aleksandar
<aleksandar.uskokov at yale.edu> wrote:
