behaviour? you describe certainly indicates an RSS inspiration, though
my point remains valid: the current that prefers the term "Indic" as a
middling term between "Indian" and "Hindu" tries to mark itself off
against the RSS. But the RSS, like the Trotskyites of yore or the SJWs
today, persistently pursue an entryist policy.
But thanks anyway for your testimony. I have seen the developments in
the Indian Council of Historical Research at close quarters, including
the impact of the BJP's rise to power. It was, as usual, a far cry
from what the supposed experts and India-watchers claim. Thus, Kapil
Kapoor & Michel Danino's excellent textbook about Indian knowledge
systems and India's contributions to the sciences, which should have
been a favourite of all Hindu-minded people, had been launched under
Congress but fell into disuse under the BJP. Far from packing the
field with pro-Hindu scholars, the RSS idea of dominating an
institution was to use this occasion (normally seized upon for
nominating dynamic people ready to change the game) only to reward
incompetent gerontocrats with plum sinecure posts and not change
anything. So you say that in Nalanda they did affirm their ideology;
maybe, but so far not higher than at Twitter level.
As a habitual receiver of threats since 30 years, I certainly don't
approve of threats. But ever since I got? scared somewhat by a
Khalistani threat back then, I have learned that they are not truly
scary. Cheer up, those who are serious about harming you are not the
ones who first send a warning to you with threats. Twitter is just
words. Nevertheless, those esteemed academics should have supported
you, indeed. But again, it is not only in your case that they abandon
the victims. When terrorists attacked (not just threatened but
actually attacked) a Mo cartoon event by Pamela Geller and Robert
Spencer in Texas, both presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and
Donald Trump refused to sympathize without ifs or buts. After the
Danish cartoon affair, the AAA at its subsequent annual conference
held a panel on it, where all six panelists and the moderator just
couldn't get it across their lips to simply support the cartoonists.
All of them started out to this effect: "I am all for freedom of
expression, BUT..." All of them ended up blaming the victim, though
some avoided becoming too explicit about that. So, Patricia, join the
club.
Clear?! Well, no, I don't see any big Hindutva name on that website, I
really wonder whom you mean. Names of moderate figures like Arvind
Sharma or Jeffrey Long suggest something else. Then again, they have
indeed begged for comprehension of the Hindu position once in a while,
and for most India-watchers, that would immediately stamp them
"Hindutva". Here, the India-watchers (and within India, the so-called
secularists) and the RSS make common cause: they both claim that
anyone defending anything Hindu is "an RSS man". In reality, there is
a whole array of non-Sanghi yet pro-Hindu voices arising, and the
"Indic" current (led by Hari Kiran Vadlamani) is one of them.
There is a slogan nowadays: "Hindus against Hindutva". It has been
launched by anti-Hindu forces, and with "Hindutva" is meant any
defence of anything Hindu. They want the freedom to attack Hinduism
left and right, and any defence against those attacks is a nuisance
that we should be "against". But let us take them at their word: they
have at least correctly distinguished between Hinduism and Hindutva.
But let's see in practice how long they can keep this up. For my
experience over the last 30 years is that the least sign of life in
Hinduism, of not succumbing to suicidal behaviour, is at once
demonized as "Hindutva".
The psychology behind this, is that they like Hinduism alright, as
long as it is only "museum Hinduism". This goes back to the Christian
Missionaries, who mostly had a genuine sympathy for much of the
culture they had come to destroy (by replacement with Christianity),
e.g. by writing descriptions of these dying cultures (e.g. the Edda,
or de Sahagun's writings on the Amerindian culture). Today, things
like Bharat Natyam or Carnatic music are still tolerated, they give
some colour to life. But when Hinduism resists being phased out, it
immediately gets criminalized as "Hindutva". This very colonial
attitude of accepting the Other only when he gives no sign of life
anymore, is like visiting a museum where everything is passive and
dead; but then suddenly, Tut-Ankh-Amon's mummy starts to move his arm,
and then even to raise his voice. Oh, that is not so nice anymore,
that is -- dare I say it? -- "Hindutva". In such a scary moment,
people don't think rationally anymore, so all distinctions disappear,
it all just becomes "Hindutva".
All the best,
Dr. Koenraad Elst
Patricia Sauthoff
Postdoctoral Fellow
AyurYog.org
Department of History and Classics
University of Alberta
Edmonton, Canada_______________________________________________
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
