[INDOLOGY] Copyright and authorship of critical editions
Dear colleagues,
yes, it does become more complicated, and this is the reason why Germany 
and several other countries have special copyright laws for scientific 
text editions.
In most countries, copyright does not depend on a specific formula or 
even the presence of a ? symbol but, first of all, on the author. The 
rights of an author expire after a certain period (60, 70, 75 or more 
years) after the death of the (last) author or, in the case of 
scientific editions in several European countries, after 25 or 30 years 
after the first publication. So BORI could, in any case, only claim the 
copyright for a certain time (I don't know when the last author of the 
edition died) and in certain countries. The same applies to the NT 
editions mentioned by Richard Mahoney, which both mention their 
"authors" (who of course are, philologically speaking, editors).
So legally, it all depends on authorship. For all I know, the editors of 
critical editions are authors, even though the base texts are public 
domain: even if you think of critical editions only as compilations, 
they can, in my view, be copyrighted, because they involve the creative 
selection and rearrangement of preexisting material. Of course, they are 
not supposed to be "new," but how could you prove (in court) that they 
are not, as long as the archetype is not found? I would argue that this 
applies regardless of what Sukthankar or any other authority says. In 
the eyes of the world, they are new texts, created by peope who are 
legally authors. At least in Austria, you cannot even get rid of 
authorship that easily ? it is attributed to you if it is clear that you 
are the author, whether you claim it or not. And with this comes and 
goes the copyright.
Best regards,
Dominik A. Haas
*Dominik A. Haas, BA MA*
PhD student, University of Vienna
dominik.haas at univie.ac.at <mailto:dominik.haas at univie.ac.at>
ORCID: 0000-0002-8505-6112 <https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8505-6112>
univie.academia.edu/DominikHaas <https://univie.academia.edu/DominikHaas>
Am 01.10.2019 um 11:55 schrieb Simon Brodbeck via INDOLOGY:
