[INDOLOGY] Thakkana again
Dear all,
I think some explanations concerning the origin of the reading ??r?macchakuna?? are due. It is attested NOT in a ??rad? MS, but in a printed version of the text (it is the only printed ?edition? I am aware of; I have uploaded it?here). It is completely unclear, what sources the editor was actually using, because the only thing he himself said about it was this:
	?asya granthasya nirm??asamaye ??k?trayam ida? ?r?ve?kate?varamudra??lay?dhipatisak???d evopalabdham ?s?d ata? punarmudra??disarv?dhik?ra? tebhya eva samarpaye iti? (p. 6).
To this, his son added that these ?three old and authoritative commentaries? were obtained by ?the proprietors of Shri Venktashwar Press [?] from the well known scholar [?] Yadavji Tricumji? (pp. 3?4). So my guess is that the editor was given a Marath? transcript of some MSS and?entrusted?with the task ?to rearrange the misplaced comments, replace or explain obscure readings, and give the whole a systematic appearance? (p. 4). Whatever may be the case, according to our survey of MS-catalogues, the only ??rad? MSS of the text, which are preserved till date (in Bikaner), do not cover the concerned portion of the text.
Furthermore, as I mentioned earlier, the overall quality of the printed text is rather poor. To give you but one obvious example, on p. 5 (under pa?), there are two verses quoted to explain the meaning of ?atha?. Of these, the first verse (I?m not going to discuss its reading, viz a bit odd as well) is not found in our oldest textual witness ? that is, in the Tibetan translation. And, in fact, this verse is grep-able (thanks to Dhaval Patel!!!) in Mahe?vara?s Vi?vaprak??a (an authorial ko?a- dated to the beginning of the 12th ctr.). This brings us to another important point that misreadings are not the only sources of textual corruptions. Therefore, I mentioned earlier that it seemed likely to me that ?sr?macchakuna-? could be an intentional ?improvement? of a ?non-sensical? reading ?sr?matthakkana-?. This ?improvement? could have been introduced by the editor of the above publication (in which case we are lucky, because it is still present in his sources (?)) or sometimes much earlier in the transmission of the text.
On the other hand, I think that Prof. Slaje?s concerns about Candranandana's use of his patron?s opprobrious name (though, surely, a king of any rang ?would have more than just a single forename) at the very beginning of his work are to be taken very serious. I wonder in this connection if it is possible to understand ?Thakkana? as ?just a name? ? that is, not as a MIA variant of Skt ?sthagana-?, but, perhaps, as a personal name having a different origin altogether?
Let me also remind you that the very identification of Candra?s patron with Thakkana is purely hypothetical (though I think that the cooccurrence of Tha ga na, sgrib byed/med and R?jatara?gin??s mention of Thakkana that also perfectly fits the proposed time of Candra is rather compelling). There are also Sanskrit MSS of the text waiting to be checked that may provide a solution (it happens so that Dr Madhu Parameshwaran from Kerala and myself are currently editing a later portion of the text, and we are certainly planing to extend our effort to the whole text in the future).
On a different note.
not an ?ominous name?, but here comes a ma?gala?loka- by someone Suvar?arekha (perhaps, a Bengali author, surely pre-Durgha?av?tti ? that is, pre 1172 CE). It?s a commentary on the Kir?t?rjun?ya and it starts right away with a ?du?-?. I must confess that I have been puzzled by this fact for quite some time now (is there something auspicious that escapes me?!). The only explanation I came up with so far is that ?durbodha-? at the beginning of the commentary needs to be connected with ?vidhu?kham? (at the end of one of the final verses of the same commentary), so that the whole text could be seen as a path leading from one to the other. Anyway, the (a)ma?gala- reads as follows:
?durbodhav?gvivara??ni kir?tak?vye n?n?rthabh??ji vidadh?ti suvar?arekha? /
?tadbh?vatattvam avagamya vimar?ayanta? santa? subh??itadhan? manas? vahantu //
best,
Andrey
On Oct 16, 2019 23:00 +0900, Roland Steiner via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info>, wrote:
