 lai?gika and sm?ti, only ?r?a as another category of reliable knowledge, vidy?, in contradistinction to four forms of avidy?) From Vai?e?ika-s?tra (VS)6.1.1 buddhip?rv? v?kyak?tir vede we can infer the position that the composition of Vedic texts is preceded
 by thinking, and hence a creation by individuals, esp. the seers, although Candr?nanda?s commentary forcefully tries to interpret the plural as honorific and the reference to the author of the Veda as a reference to Mahe?vara (Houben 2019, pp. 198-199); in
 the system of Yoga (Yoga-s?tra etc.) the Veda and God have marginal roles, as for the latter i.a. in an optional way to the ultimate Yogic goal (A. Nugteren, God as an alternative, Leuven, Apeldoorn: Garant, 1991). Hence, we are left with only P?rva-m?m??s?
 and Ved?nta as fully and originally committed to the Vedas as sources of ultimate knowledge, an irrational position which M?m??sakas such as Kum?rila brilliantly tried to defend rationally by arguing for a nitya and apauru?eya Veda. Somewhere in Alexis Pinchard?s
 Les langues de sagesse dans la Gr?ce et l?Inde anciennes (2009, based on a thesis defended in 2005) the author describes how there is an 'inflation' in the sacred status of Vedic and Sanskrit, an ?inflation? that can be easily traced back to its earlier stages.
 At first, the ?secret names or footsteps of the cows? are preserved in ?human? hymns addressed to the gods. Subsequently, the entire ?human? hymns, skillfully composed by trained poets, acquire the status of divine texts which through their metre etc. are
 demarcated from all other language use, including the comments and explanations of difficulties associated with these divine texts. The next stage is the acquisition of divine status of both the hymns and their explanations, the stage reflected in the dictum
 mantra-br?hma?ayor veda-n?madheyam ?Mantras and Br?hma?as have the designation ?Veda? ? (?pastamba ?rauta-s?tra 24.1.31). The auxiliary disciplines such as grammar, etc., which develop in order to bridge the increasing distance between the language of the
 Veda and even the polished language of daily life, are the next candidates to receive divine status; the last observed stage is the attribution of divine status not only to Vedic literature and its auxiliary disciplines but to the entire Sanskrit language,
 a view which we find already clearly formulated by the 5th century grammarian-philosopher Bhart?hari, but which remained in his time far from uncontested (Houben 1996b). This does not detract from the de facto role of classical Sanskrit as a language to the
 co-production of which Buddhists contributed importantly, a philosophical and literary lingua franca (Houben 2018 ?Linguistic Paradox and Diglossia?).&nbsp;&nbsp;
Best,&nbsp;
Jan Houben
On Mon, 4 Nov 2019 at 18:37, Dean Michael Anderson via INDOLOGY &lt;indology at list.indology.info&gt; wrote:
Sorry, I mistitled that earlier thread.
Does anyone know the origin of the term and concept that the Vedas are "nitya apaurusheya", eternal and uncreated by humans?
I have heard it might have originated in Karma Mimamsa.
Also, any information about how it was conceived, discussed and debated would be appreciated.
Thanks,
Dean
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
Jan E.M. Houben
Directeur d'?tudes, Professor of South Asian History and Philology
Sources et histoire de la tradition sanskrite
?cole Pratique des Hautes ?tudes (EPHE, PSL - Universit? Paris)
Sciences historiques et philologiques&nbsp;
54, rue Saint-Jacques, CS 20525 ? 75005 Paris
johannes.houben at ephe.sorbonne.fr
johannes.houben at ephe.psl.eu
https://ephe-sorbonne.academia.edu/JanEMHouben
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
This message is from an external sender. Learn more about why this &lt;&lt;
matters at https://links.utexas.edu/rtyclf. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&lt;&lt;
