[INDOLOGY] Dharmapada Bibliography
Dominik and colleagues,
I couldn?t agree more. In addition to minimal remuneration, they offer authors 6 months of free access to the bibliography, after which one either has to pay for a subscription to one?s own work as well the rest of the bibliography, or be at an institution that has a subscription. Their business model may be said to support scholarship, but not scholars. But they are not alone in this dynamic. Sadly, it is all too routine in our profession.
But while singling out Oxford Univ. Press, let me add the following. Recently they published a translation of the fundamental Chinese Buddhist text, Treatise on Awakening Mah?y?na Faith (sometimes just called Awakening of Faith in English), which John Jorgensen, John Makeham, Mark Strange and I worked on for several years. At the annual American Academy of Religion meeting in San Diego, from which I?ve just returned, when I looked for the book at the Oxford display in the book fair, I couldn?t find it either on display or on their sale book list.  I asked them why the book wasn?t there. They hadn?t heard of it (ok, they do have a large inventory), and it took them a few minutes to locate the title on their electronic devices, confirming that the official release date for the book was October 1st. They apologized; I said we?ve all lost a great opportunity. They said people could buy it online ? kind of missing the point.
https://global.oup.com/academic/product/treatise-on-awakening-mahyna-faith-9780190297718?q=treatise%20on%20awakening%20mahayana%20faith&lang=en&cc=us
We had hoped that colleagues who recognize the central importance of the Awakening of Faith for East Asian Buddhism for the last 1500 years, but were loath to inflict Hakeda?s translation on students, would adopt our translation for classroom use. A display copy would have allowed people to make an informed determination on that account.
Dominik?s efforts on this list and elsewhere to challenge the business practices living off our labors that seek to minimally remunerate us, the workers, while enriching themselves, are deeply appreciated by many, myself included. Thank you, Dominik.
best,
Dan
