[INDOLOGY] origin and discussion that the Vedas are "nitya apaurusheya"
Thanks.I. Have got your point.
Alakendu Das.
Sent from RediffmailNG on Android
Sent: Thu, 7 Nov 2019 00:34:53 GMT+0530
Re: [INDOLOGY]  origin and discussion that the Vedas are "nitya apaurusheya"
If you are responding to my post, then you have misunderstood it. My point was simply that the apauru?eyatva of the Veda was central to Dharma??stric views regarding the epistemology of dharma, and this tenet was borrowed from the sister school
 of M?m??s?, as Jan Houben stated. I am not talking about the apauru?eyatve of Dharma??stras!! These texts were always believed to have been humanly authored. See Madh?tithi?s wonderful, almost modern, view of how Manu composed his treatise.
Patrick Olivelle
On Nov 6, 2019, at 12:00 PM, alakendu das via INDOLOGY &lt;indology at list.indology.info&gt; wrote:
Dr.Houben,&nbsp;
With due respect,If I may just highlight a point ,namely, Dharmashastra is a part of Smriti , or more specifically , a part of Vedanga.Can we term it as "Apauruesheya"? Stuti is "Apauruesheya", but is.Smriti so?
Alakendu Das.
Sent from RediffmailNG on Android
Sent: Wed, 6 Nov 2019 19:05:23 GMT+0530
Re: [INDOLOGY] origin and discussion that the Vedas are "nitya apaurusheya"
Dear Dean,&nbsp;
Some quick notes in reaction to your query:&nbsp;
It is a widely accepted clich? that "the Vedas are eternal and apauru?eya" and another clich?, equally widely accepted by both traditional and modern, Indian and non-Indian, scholars is that this is essentially (!) THE Indian view on the Vedas.
 At some point in time, indeed, the "irrational" view of the nitya and apauru?eya Veda became dominant, and the theory of elevated but basically "human" authors disappeared from view in "orthodox" circles (just as the view of an originally basically "human"
 Jesus Christ advocated by Arius made in the course of time place for more "irrational" positions such as Trinitarianism which implies the an?dinidhanam divinity of Jesus in Christianity?). This means there was an earlier time that the view of a nitya and apauru?eya
 Veda was not dominant or evident. Even if we limit ourselves to the six so-called "orthodox" schools of Indian philosophy we find that widely divergent views were held about the nature and (extent of) authoritativeness of the Vedas -- and on the question whether
 the Vedic texts had or did not have authors: S??khya is severely critical of the Vedas and Vedic ritual (Houben 1999); Ny?ya makes efforts to prove that the Veda is not apauru?eya but pauru?eya: deriving from a Puru?a, namely God (Chemparathy 1983); the school
 of Aitih?sika interpretation of the Rgveda did not survive but interpreted the subject matter of hymns often in terms of references to human or divine,?historical? personalities (E. Sieg 1902). Not much of their views is preserved, but it is likely that the
 authors of the hymns were also regarded as ?historical? personalities; in Vai?e?ika, although theism overtook later on, there is no early systematic commitment even to God but to the ??is and their knowledge (even Pra?astap?da accepts, apart from pratyak?a,
