=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_sa=C5=9Bar=C4=ABra?=
Dear Aaron et al.,
What is equally interesting as the question of who is able to enter the heavenly worlds in their own bodies and how they are able to do so, is the question of those who try to do so and fail.  You mention Yudhi??hira and his purported sinlessness. But then there are his four younger brothers and Draupad? who fail in their attempts because of offenses that seem quite minor compared with some of the other things they have done in the course of the epic story. One of these which gets little notice in the text, its commentaries and epic scholarship is the P???ava?s calculated and heartless murder of a ni??da woman and her  five sons to cover their escape from the lacquer house. This, of course bears on the epic ideology of social class and status, an issue that is highly relevant to the question of sa?ar?ra entry into heaven.
Other notable  failures in this attempt are, of course the two you mention, Tri?a?ku and ?amb?ka. These figures both attempt to employ a powerful means to accomplish this goal, the enormous power acquired through asceticism. In the first case it is the tapobala of Vi?v?mitra and in the second, the in-progress asceticism of ?amb?ka himself. Both episodes appear to indicate that the attempts of these two figures would have been successful had they not been abruptly thwarted, in the first case by Indra and in the second through execution at the hands of R?ma. In both cases the reason the aspiring ascetics are prevented from achieving their goal is their social status. In the case of Tri?a?ku, Indra objects to  the entry of a lowly Ca???la, one cursed to suffer in that state through his act of gurvapar?dha, into the pure, heavenly worlds. In the case of ?a?b?ka, his crime is not so much his tapas, per se, as the fact that, as the text and its copious commentaries on this episode indicate, as a ??dra in what is generally agreed to be the Tret?yuga, he is a tapasvin avant la lettre, as it were. For a discussion of the question of who is permitted to perform tapas in which yuga, see the notes to the ?amb?ka episode in my and Dr Sally Sutherland Goldman?s 2017 Princeton Univerity Press translation of the Uttarak???a.
Interestingly, although neither V?lm?ki nor his commentators waste any more pity on what they regard as a rogue ??dra than the Mah?bh?rata commentators do on the hapless Ni??da family, later poets of the R?macarita make efforts to rehabilitate them, so to say. 
Thus K?lid?sa, in his Raghuva??a, observes that through his death at R?ma?s hands the ?udra attained an even higher heavenly world than he could have attained through his unauthorized penances.
k?tada??a? svaya? r?j?? lebhe ??dra? sat?? gatim /
		tapas? du?care??pi na svam?rgavila?ghin? // RV 15.53
Then, too, famously, Bhavabh?ti thoroughly rehabilitates the executed ?amb?ka in the second act of his Uttarar?macarita by showing him to be transfigured into a heavenly being as a result of his decapitation by R?ma and one, moreover who is given some of the most beautiful descriptive verses in the play. So perhaps in the long run it's worth the effort. no matter the obstacles, to shoot for sa?ar?rasvarg?roha?a.
iti viram?mi vistar?t. . .
(except to thank Christophe for sharing his excellent and interesting article on Tri?a?ku.)
Best wishes to all for the holiday season.
Bob Goldman
Catherine and William L. Magistretti Distinguished Professor in South and Southeast Asian Studies
Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies MC # 2540
The University of California at Berkeley
Berkeley, CA 94720-2540
Fax: 510-642-2409
