[INDOLOGY] 'catching the ocean in a cow's hoofprint'
Dear Antonia,
Not P??ini-specific, but maybe still of interest to you is the appearance of the combination of the ocean and the cow's hoof print in the version of global warming found in A?guttara Nik?ya IV 100?106. There, during pralaya, after the plants have died and the rivers have run dry, the ocean sinks to ever lower levels, from the depth of a yojana down to that of the amount of water found in a cow's hoof print: seyyath? pi bhikkhave saradasamaye thullaphusitake deve vassante tattha tattha gopadesu udak?ni ?hit?ni honti, evam eva kho bhikkhave tattha tattha gopadamatt?ni mah?samudde udak?ni ?hit?ni honti (AN IV 102,6-9).
Warmly,
Christoph
Christoph Emmrich
Associate Professor, Buddhist Studies
General Secretary, IABS
Director, Centre for South Asian Studies
at the Asian Institute, Munk School of Global Affairs and Public Policy
Chair, Numata Program UofT/McMaster
University of Toronto
Sent: December 23, 2019 11:43:06 AM
Re: [INDOLOGY] 'catching the ocean in a cow's hoofprint'
Dear Antonia,
     There is a traditional verse that says that the words used by Vy?sa were from the Ocean of Grammar composed by Mahendra.  Those jewels of words cannot be found in P??ini's grammar which is like a Cow's Hoofprint.  This is to say that the so-called ?r?a usages in the Pur??as are not ungrammatical, though they may not fit the [limited] grammar of P??ini.
???????????? ???????????? ?????? ??????????????? ? ????????? ??? ???? ????? ????????????? ??
    This verse [according to secondary references] is found in Devabodha's commentary on the Mahabharata.
Madhav M. Deshpande
Professor Emeritus, Sanskrit and Linguistics
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA
Senior Fellow, Oxford Center for Hindu Studies
[Residence: Campbell, California, USA]
On Mon, Dec 23, 2019 at 8:12 AM Antonia Ruppel via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info<mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
Dear all,
In the BBC radio series 'Incarnations', the episode on P??ini is entitled 'Catching the Ocean in a Cow's Hoofprint', which it says is a description of what P??ini's work achieved.
Can anyone tell me what the source of this expression specifically in reference to P??ini is? Textual/online searches for go?pada- have not led me very far - but maybe I've been looking for the wrong word?
(In case anyone doesn't know 'Incarnations' and wants to listen to any of the episodes: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b05rptbv/episodes/downloads)
Many thanks and all the best,
     Antonia
?
Dr Antonia Ruppel
University of Oxford
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
indology-owner at list.indology.info<mailto:indology-owner at list.indology.info> (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
