Dear all,
Tri?a?ku's sacrifice is certainly loaded with terminology (e.g., ?tvij,
sruva) pointing the audience towards envisioning a proper vedic affair, so
I would certainly agree with Dominik that there is an intentional resonance
between the Vedas and the epic.  And our understanding of "sa?ar?ra" is
likely to be colored similarly.  Also, the question of sa?ar?ra vs.
sva?ar?ra is a great one.  The Tri?a?ku episode appears somewhat
noncommittal in a distinction between the two, though I suspect other
genre's may have more to say on the subject -- which I suppose is one thing
I am hoping to sort through by posing my original question.  On a quick
glance through just the Tri?a?ku episode (VR 1.56.10-1.59.33), however, I
noticed a few things:
1. sa?ar?ra is a bit more common.  By my count, it occurs nine times versus
sva?ar?ra's five (with one occurrence splitting the prefix sva- and
declining it adjectivally)
2. sva?ar?ra shows up in a few different situations, but it is notably
never said by Tri?a?ku himself.  It first shows up when the story's
narrator (?at?nanda) introduces R?ma to the character Tri?a?ku.  Its only
other occurrences are when Vi?v?mitra is either discussing Tri?a?ku with
Vasi??ha's sons or addressing Tri?a?ku directly.
3. Both ?at?nanda and Vi?v?mitra seem to use the two terms
interchangeably.  Vi?v?mitra even says them in adjacent verses (e.g.,
1.59.14-15).
4. Because Tri?a?ku never uses sva?ar?ra, his direct statements of his
intent to go to a heavenly realm always use sa?ar?ra.
5. Of course, the Tri?a?ku episode presents a special complication when
considering whether a body is one's own or not.  Tri?a?ku is not, in a
sense, in his original body when he approaches Vi?v?mitra -- he was cursed
to be *ca???lar?pin*.  Vi?v?mitra even suggests that Tri?a?ku will go to
heaven in the cursed *ca???la* form and uses sa?ar?ra in his dialogue
(1.58.4).  That Vi?v?mitra is confident that Tri?a?ku would enter heaven in
such a form is especially significant when viewed in comparison to the
?amb?ka story.
I'm sure there is more to be unpacked here, but this is an initial glance.
With best wishes,
Aaron
On Wed, Dec 18, 2019 at 4:53 AM Dominik Haas <dominik.haas at univie.ac.at>
wrote:
