FW: Fellowship in education and development, IDS (fwd)
Forwarded message:
Sent:  Tuesday, March 18, 1997 6:13 AM
 Job: Fellowship in education and development, IDS
18 March 1997
FELLOWSHIP IN EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT
The Institute of Development Studies, a policy research and training
institute for overseas development, is recruiting a Fellow to its
education programme.  The programme seeks to analyse the impact of
different educational strategies upon the process of development and
to understand the social, economic and institutional causes of unequal
educational outcomes amongst different groups in society.  The
successful applicant will join a multi- disciplinary group and will be
expected to contribute to the IDS's research, teaching and advisory
work.  Successful candidates will have a doctorate, a strong social
science background and some completed research on education.
Experience of research or policy work in a developing country will be
an advantage.
The appointment will be made to the Universities' Research Faculty
scales, Ranges IA or II, in the light of age and experience.
Closing date:.15 May 1997
Interview Date: 8 July 1997
Further details on our web site:
http://www.ids.ac.uk/ids/news/recruit/index.html or contact:
Mrs Lin Briggs
Institute of Development Studies
University of Sussex
Brighton BN1 9RE
Confidential Fax/Answerphone: (01273) 674553 (Intl +44 1273);
E-mail: qdfk2 at sussex.ac.uk
FURTHER PARTICULARS
FELLOWSHIP in Education and Development
THE INSTITUTE
The Institute of Development Studies was founded in 1966 as a national
research and training centre on developing countries.  Thirty years
on, the IDS has an international reputation for its research on all
aspects of development.  The Institute currently has about 40 Fellows,
working with other research staff, Visiting Fellows from many
developing countries, and around 100 postgraduate students.  The IDS
houses the British Library of Development Studies, one of the best
collections of its kind in the world.  More information about the IDS
is available through the Devline home page on the internet
(http://www.ids.ac.uk/index.html).
THE POSITION
The Institute has a long and distinguished record of research on
education and development.  This research programme, in broad terms,
seeks to analyse the impact of different educational strategies upon
the process of development and to understand the social, economic and
institutional causes of unequal educational outcomes amongst different
groups in society.  Recent work has focused on primary schooling which
is a vital preparation for participation in any sort of modern
economic activity.  Christopher Colclough is directing a team of
researchers investigating why fewer girls than boys attend school in
Africa and identifying the most promising policy options for countries
committed to universalising primary schooling.  Other recent work has
included an assessment of the effectiveness of reforms to the
provision and finance of education and health services.  Paul Bennell
has re-examined the international evidence on rates-of- return to
different levels of education.  His present work evaluates the record
of vocational education and training in Africa.  Initial results
suggest that market-led reforms are not necessarily the best solution
for vocational education programmes, in the African context.
The Institute has a broadly based teaching programme at Masters and
Doctorate levels.  Its MA in Gender and Development and its two-year
M.Phil in Development Studies are both inter- disciplinary courses
which incorporate teaching on education and development. .../...
.../...
THE ROLE AND QUALIFICATIONS
In order to strengthen further the Institute's research and teaching
programme an additional Fellowship in education and development is
being established.  The successful applicant will be part of a multi-
disciplinary group, and will be expected to contribute to the
Institute's research, teaching and advisory work.  There are
opportunities to collaborate on  research projects with other
colleagues outside of the field of education.  Candidates are expected
to have a Doctorate, a strong social science background and some
completed research on education in developing countries - probably,
although not necessarily - as part of their Doctoral work.  Relevant
experience of research or policy work in a developing country will be
an advantage.  The position is a fixed term three-year contract in the
first instance and the Terms and Conditions are those associated with
the Universities' Research faculty.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The terms and conditions are those relating to the universities'
research faculty.  The appointment will be full-time for three years,
in the first instance, with the possibility of renewal.
SALARY
The salary will be within Grade IA or II (?14,317-?26,430, Award
Pending) of the universities' research faculty scales, to be
determined by age and experience, with opportunities for income
enhancement.
CLOSING DATE:   15 May 1997
INTERVIEW DATE: 8 July 1997
APPLICATIONS TO:
Mrs Lin Briggs
Personnel Office
Institute of Development Studies
University of Sussex
Brighton BN1 9RE
Confidential Fax and Answerphone: 01273-674553 [Int +44 1273]
E-mail : qdfk2 at sussex.ac.uk
(please give a postal address, as the form cannot be e-mailed to you)
These Further Particulars are also available on the IDS web site at
http://www.ids.ac.uk/ids/news/recruit/index.html
