Conference Announcement
Please read this announcement and distribute it among your colleagues.
15th European Conference on Modern South Asian Studies
8?12 September 1998, Charles University, Prague
First announcement                                            February 1997
We would like to invite you to the 15th European Conference on Modern South
Asian Studies which will be held at Charles University in Prague under the
auspices of the Rector of the University as part of the celebrations of the
650th anniversary of the University.
The Conference is organized by the Institute of Indian Studies, Charles
University in cooperation with the Oriental Institute of the Czech Academy
of Sciences, the Institute of International Relations, the Naprstek Museum
of Asian, African and American Cultures and other institutions.
The Conference will be inaugurated on Tuesday, 8 September 1998 at 7 PM, the
sessions will start on Wednesday, 9 September. The final plenary session
will take place on Saturday, 12 September, 9.00 to 12.00 AM.
Registration 
Visit our WWW-page and register through an electronic Registration Form
(http://www.ruk.cuni.cz/~dvorakj/southasia.html) or, if your web-browser
does not support forms, you can download a printable text-version of the
Registration Form, which you can print, fill in and send by "snail-mail" or
fill in and send by e-mail. You are requested to submit the Registration
Form to the Organizing Committee before 30 April 1997.
List of conference panels:
1. The First Century of British Rule in South Asia (Kolff)
2. Regional Development at the End of Empire (Collins)
3. Integration of Princely States/Princes in Post-Colonial India (Fasana)
4. Regional Cooperation in South Asia/ Politic and Economic (Kovar, Zingel, v.d. Geest)
5. Domestic Problems and Foreign Policy in South Asia (Weidemann)
6. Colonialism, German Indology and the Orientalist Predicament (Kulke)
7. Europe and South Asia in the 20th Century (Oesterheld)
8. Rural Development in South Asia (Lerche/Jeffrey, R.)
9. Environment and Water Resources in South Asia (Swain)
10. Democracy in South Asia / Multi-Party System (Komarov)
11. Decision Making at the Local Level (Muller-Boker)
12. Disaggregating the State in South Asia (Blomkvist)
13. Alternative Futures: The Panjab (Samad)
14. Tribal Structures and Tribal Movements (Gautam)
15. Untouchability: Past and Present (Aktor)
16. Ethnicity and the Diaspora (Raj)
17. Cultural Relativism and Human Rights in Islam (Noorani)
18. Human Rights (Madsen)
19. The Emergence of Individualism in South Asia (Tambs-Lyche)
20. Gender Issues and Social Change (Jeffrey, P., Mursheed)
21. Sufi Studies and Early Islam (De Bruyn)
22. Religious Reform Movements in South Asia (Copley/Rustau)
23. Performing Arts (Karpen)
24. Hindu Art and Buddhist Art: Mutual Dependence and Common Legacy (Gail)
25. Linguistics of South Asia (Nespital)
26. Romani linguistics and culture in relation to the country of its origin
(Hubschmannov?)
27. Ancient Indian Texts and Text Interpretation (Vacek, Elisarenkova)
28. The Role of the Mahabharata in South Asia (Sand)
29. Bengali and Bangladeshi Literature (Radice)
30. Modern Tamil Literature: Written and Oral (Eichinger Ferro-Luzzi)
31. Literature (to be specified) (Matringe)
Details concerning accommodation, registration fees etc. are found on our
WWW-page http://www.ruk.cuni.cz/~dvorakj/southasia.html.
The Organizing Committee
Jaroslav Vacek (Chairman)
Jan Marek (General Secretary)
Jan Dvorak (Administrative Secretary)
Jaroslav Holman, Svetislav Kostic, Jindrich Kovar,
Miloslav Krasa, Marketa Prochazkova, Jaroslav Strnad
Mailing address
Institute of Indian Studies
Charles University
Celetna? 20
116 42  Praha 1
CZECH REPUBLIC
E-mail: southasia at cuni.cz
WWW: http://www.ruk.cuni.cz/~dvorakj/southasia.html
