Solution to the 'sUtra'-'nUl' problem
We are all concerned about the texts, e-texts, net (internet)  and the web
(sites). But these terms seem to have a more interesting connection in the
Indian ,or at least Dravidian, pre-history. If your curiosity is piqued,
please read on.
For quite some time, I have been puzzled by the similarity of the concepts of
text and thread in Sanskrit and Tamil, the words used being ?sUtra? and
?nUl/nuval? in the respective languages. Given the fact, that Sanskrit terms
are occurring much earlier in Sanskrit texts, one would normally expect that
Sanskrit may be the source. But the contextual usage of the relevant word in
Tamil/Dravidian seemed to suggest to me that it was independently derived.
Finally, two days back, I got a breakthrough insight which seemed to clearly
establish the etymology of the Tamil word. The solution is so simple and
elegant that I was quite excited and I did not want to wait until
thecompletion of my paper, but wanted to share my discovery with the list
members. I have to thank Dr. Asko Parpola whose paper sparked the
inspiration. Here is the story. I also should thank Malten and Lehmann for
their index of Classical Tamiln (CT).
In searching for some other word in CT, I came across the word ?cilampi?
meaning ?spider?. Even though I have noticed that word before, on that day, wh
en I saw that word, I was suddenly reminded of Parpola?s discussion of the
etymology of the word ?kinnaram? in his article on the pre-Vedic background
of zrauta rituals. Immediately, everything fell into place. I am giving below
just the conclusions I have reached. I shall reserve the references, etc. for
the paper.
?cilai?, and ?cilampu? are related words (DEDR 1574) derived from a
proto-Dravidian root *kil. In CT, ?cilai? refers to shouting by warriors,
animal  roars/cries, thunder, sound of drums, sound of a lute, etc., and
?cilampu? is used to refer to the sound of drums, anklets, various sounds
echoing on the hill-side, etc. ?cilampi? the spider does not produce any
sound/cry/shout of its own. But, it does produce something else through its
mouth (as believed by Tamils/Dravidians) - ?vAy nUl? or (literally ?thread of
the mouth?). This realization of the commonness of the source of vocalization
of animal noise as well as ?thread? or ?cobweb? must have led them to name
the spider as ?cilampi? literally meaning ?that which ?cilampu?s. (I am sure,
the word ?cilumpu? (DEDR 2569) meaning ?to flow out? ?gush out? is also
related to these words in the sense of sound or fluid flowing out of a
