pranava in the samhitas.
I believe that the largest collection of Pancaratra Agama reference
materials in the world,  even surpassing Madras, is in the Cleveland public
library, Cleveland, OH, USA. Some time quite long ago, I think about the
1930's, this library somehow got a large endowment for this type (Vedic,
etc.?) of materials, and it has continued to increase ever since. H. Daniel
Smith who spent some 20 or 30 years uncovering/collecting Pancaratra Agamas
throughout south India sent his (entire?) collection to this library. (He
relates the story that many of the very rare texts he collected were
literally about to be used for "firewood," by poor families in villages, as
he walked in the door and purchased them.) A small part of the collection
is documented and summarized by several publications of Daniel Smith, one
of which is "The Smith Agama Collection: Sanskrit Books and Manuscripts
Relating to Pancaratra Studies, a Descriptive Catalog." This is published
by the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse
University, NY, USA. All of the references that you have listed below are
contained in this catalog and are supposed to be in the Cleveland library.
There are also parts of the Parasara Samhita in Devanagari manuscript, In
addition to full text in Telegu. I have a copy of parts of a lot of these,
but it would be rather difficult to find the sections you wish based on
your location references. My time is quite over scheduled now, but if you
cannot get your information from any other source I will try to help. I
strongly suggest that you take a trip to Cleveland, though, because that
should have everything you desire. Please let me know if you are able to go
there and what you think.
PS A small subset of this material is also available at the University of
Iowa library, by the incredibly gracious donation of H. Daniel Smith. I
helped to arrange this and also have a copy myself, along with full text of
a few Agamas. (This is about 2500 to 3000 pages of Dr. Smith's manuscripts
and photocopies from the Agamas, containing all references he was able to
find within Pancaratra Agamas concerning Prathishta. Many of these are hand
copied manuscripts not available anywhere else.) You can contact Ed
Shreeves, directory of special collections at the University of Iowa
Library, or Dr. Fred Smith in the Asian Studies(?) department, if you
happen to go through Iowa City.
Claude Setzer,  cssetzer at mum.edu
looking
seed
the
for
references
photocopies
sudra
mantra,
but
elderly
prapatti.
9.762-73).
3.78ff.
3.108ff
for
be
devotion
ways
