Winword 97 diacritics-problems
I have recently upgraded a computer to (Japanese) Windows 95 and find
that Winword 97 behaves quite erratically with my diacritics fonts. Two
problems: 
(1) Previously, I used a slight modification of Norman-TTFs with Word 6.
I have transported some macros to Winwrd 97, which I use to convert my
documents into ASCII-diacritics-conventions (Kyoto-Harvard and such). I
find, now, when I run those macros which convert ASCII-documents into
(slightly modified) NORMAN-TTFs that certain characters just won't
display right. These are always the same characters, and I am starting
to suspect that Winword 97 has some secret rule about character
positions. Might this have anything to do with the lauded implementation
of Unicode? Or is it, again, a by-product of two-byte-encoding? Just to
stress this: Characters are rightly treated (I can search for them with
the correct ANSI-numbers), but not properly displayed. The only way to
get them right is by manually overwrite them ...
(2) I have transported a group of documents which share a template from
Winword 6 to Word 97. Some of the diacritics display as rectangles. Even
when I try to input them manually, they only come out as rectangles. The
character table displays rectangles in their position as well. The only
way to get them right is to manually paste them into the document from
some other file. 
Is is possible that the modifications I have carried out with Norman
have resulted in low quality, and that the erratic behaviour described
above simply expresses Winword's contempt for my poorly designed fonts? 
On top of all this, since yesterday, standard-viewing has decided to
display all fonts as Courier. The layout-mode displays as it should, so
what's wrong now?
I would really appreciate hints from other Word-users who may have had
similar experiences. Replies via privae e-mail are perhaps more
appropriate, I could then post information of general interest to the
list later on. 
Thanks in advance. 
Birgit Kellner
Department for Indian Philosophy
Hiroshima University
