epics and oral traditions
At 20:18 +0200 6/06/97, Birgit Kellner wrote:
	We don't talk about the same *pragmatic*. For me, pragmatic is the
others than linguistical effects produced by the talking. When I say: 'I
swear I ...', that's not just a phrase, but an oath. A prayer, too, is not
just a text!
	The importance of exact utterance is absolute and a special priest
(I don't have his name at hand) is charged to detect any error.
	But the job of a bard is to relate the same *story*, not necessarly
with the same *words*. When I was recounting a liked fairy tale to my
children, they accepted many changes (even additions of minor episods) but
NO changes of characters or main story.
	The ritual is not the same thing: your lawyers are (in movies)
everytime saying 'objection!', never 'I don't agree!'.
	I think that's a professional deformation of many scholars: they
believe they must say absolutely everything about a subject, even
irrelevant. They hope to become THE reference, but they become just
unreadable ...
                                                            ^^^^^^^
	It seems to me that Dan Lusthaus said *verifying*
	You underestimate gravely human memory capacities, because they are
actually lost today in all the world (from more than a century, ALL the
bards have received the visit of a scholar with paper or tapes and they are
not stupid). Training the memory is a very hard and long education who
begin at an early age and, for priestes, each prayer is repeated each day,
more than ten years along. Fortunately there is today an other job who
begin at an early age and need an each day training: music. And exist
maestri who can dirige all the Wagner's Ring without a partition and EACH
Heldentenor is able to sing the role of Tristan (a very long TEXT) without
any error. Few years ago I'have seen a very young german tenor with a fine
voice but unable to read a partition, who had learned the Traviata just
hearing it.
	But I suppose if no scholar had make a thesis about that, with an
exemplar in each university library, you'll say me that's not proved ...
	Best regards,
Dominique
Dominique THILLAUD
Universite' de Nice Sophia-Antipolis, France
