BASAS and STIMW
The British Association of South Asian Studies will hold a conference in
Manchester, 17th-19th April 1998. An announcement will appear in the
October BASAS Bulletin.
I have been asked to convene a panel on Sanskrit studies, so if you are
within reach of Manchester and can offer a paper in this field I shall be
glad to hear from you. BASAS is mainly interested in the contemporary
world, politics, sociology, etc., so a paper that bridges the artificial
gap between 'indology' and 'South Asian studies' would be particularly
welcome.
BASAS offers a prize for an outstanding paper by a young scholar at the
conference: see below.
I am also planning the 15th day conference on the Sanskrit Tradition in
the Modern World (STIMW) at Newcastle upon Tyne on Friday, 22nd May 1998.
Papers will be circulated in advance, and discussed at the conference
without being read out. Please let me know if you are interested,
particularly if you can offer a paper.
Dr Dermot Killingley
Dept of Religious Studies
University of Newcastle upon Tyne
Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU
BASAS PRIZE
Announcing the establishment of the British Association of South Asian
studies (BASAS) prize for the outstanding paper given by a young scholar
at the 1998 BASAS Annual Conference.
The BASAS prize will consist of a monetary award of #100.00.
The BASAS prize is intended to encourage young scholars, either studying
for a degree in an institution of higher learning and/or be no older than
35 at the time of the 1998 BASAS Annual Conference. The author need not be
a member of BASAS.
The submission may be in any field related to South Asia or South Asians,
not previously published or presented else where, to be submitted in
advance to the secretary of BASAS by 15 March 1998 and be presented at the
BASAS Annual Conference to be held 17-19 April at the University of
Manchester, UK.
The judging panel will consist of members of the BASAS Executive Committee
and the panel reserves the right not to present the award and will not
enter into correspondence concerning its final judgement.
Secretary BASAS, Dr Yunas Samad, Department of Social and Economic
Studies, University of Bradford, West Yorkshire BD7 1DP, UK. Tel:
+44-(0)1274-384804 Fax: +44(0)1274-385295 Email a.y.samad at bradford.ac.uk
BASAS http://www.brad.ac.uk/ses/basas1.html
