Tobacco (rolled in cryptography)
Anshuman Pandey wrote:
Well, now that you bring up the subject, I'll have to reveal a well-kept
secret:  the Egyptian, Greek and all other great civilizations are derived
from the Mayas of Central America.
If you have doubts, read Augustus Le Plongeon's 1896 book 'Queen Moo and the
Egyptian Sphinx.'  He gives irrefutable proof that the Greek alphabet is
derived from the Mayan language.  The Greek alphabet is a cryptic
description, in Mayan, of the sinking of the ancient continent of Mu (now
you know where the name of that letter comes from!).  The ancient Mayas
traveled to the Middle East and beyond, and their teachings informed all
great civilizations.
Another author, a certain Tony Earll (who sold more than his cosmically
allotted share of paperbacks), described the discovery of some ancient
tablets in the outskirts of Mexico City that talked of the ancient sunken
continent.
As it turns out, Tony Earll is an anagram of 'not really.'
Here are some of Le Plongeon's books.
 Le Plongeon, Augustus, 1826-1908.
      Maya/Atlantis : Queen Moo and the Egyptian Sphinx / by Augustus Le
    Plongeon ; new introd. by Paul M. Allen.  Blauvelt, N.Y. : R. Steiner
    Publications, 1973.
 Le Plongeon, Augustus, 1826-1908.
      Sacred mysteries among the Mayas and the Quiches, 11,500 years ago :
    their relation to the sacred mysteries of Egypt, Greece, Chaldea and India
    : Freemasonry in times anterior to the Temple of Solomon / illustrated...
    3rd ed.  New York : Macoy Publishing and Masonic Supply Co., 1909, c1886.
 Le Plongeon, Augustus, 1826-1908.
      Vestiges of the Mayas, or, Facts tending to prove that communications and
    intimate relations must have existed, in very remote times, between the
    inhabitants of Mayab and those of Asia and Africa. By Augustus Le Plongeon.
    New York, J. Polhemus, printer, 1881.
For those interested in possible pre-columbian contacts between the Americas
and the rest of the world, a good starting point would be:
 Needham, Joseph, 1900-
      Trans-Pacific echoes and resonances : listening once again / Joseph
    Needham and Lu Gwei-Djen.  Singapore ; Philadelphia : World Scientific,
    c1985.
Best wishes,
Luis Gonzalez-Reimann
University of California, Berkeley
