Hinduism and Ecology Conference (fwd)
Forwarded from Chris Chapple.  Please contact him for information. LN
      Hinduism and Ecology Conference
A conference on Hinduism and Ecology will be held at the Harvard
University's Center for the Study of World Religions from Thursday,
October 2, through Sunday, October 5.
This conference is part of a series directed by Lawrence Sullivan of
the Center and coordinated by Professors Mary Evelyn Tucker and John
Grim of Bucknell University. The convenors for the Hinduism and
Ecology conference are Christopher Key Chapple of Loyola Marymount
University and Arvind Sharma of McGill University.
In addition to private funding obtained to support this series of
conferences, funds from the Dharmam Hinduja Indic Research Center
will help support the Hinduism and Ecology conference.
The program is listed below.
If you would like to receive more information on the conference,
please contact me at cchapple at popmail.lmu.edu
Chris Chapple
Professor of Theological Studies
Loyola Marymount University
Los Angeles, California 90045
310-338-2846
HINDUISM AND ECOLOGY
Thursday, October 2
        7:30p.m.        Plenary Address
                        Chair:  Arvind Sharma, McGill University
Hinduism, Gandhi, and Patterns of Development in India
Dr. T.N. Khoshoo, Former Minister of Environment for the
Government of India;  Currently Distinguished Fellow,
Tata Energy Research Institute
Friday, October 3
9:00-10:30a.m.  Introductory Session
Welcome
Christopher Key Chapple, Loyola Marymount University (Chair)
and Arvind Sharma, McGill University, Co-conveners
Ecology and Hindu Religion
O.P. Dwivedi, University of Guelph
The Five Great Elements (Panca Mahabhuta):
An Ecological Perspective
K.L. Seshagiri Rao, Encyclopedia of Hinduism and Indic Religions
Respondent:  George James, University of North Texas
11:00-12:30p.m. Gandhi and Ecology
                        Chair:  Mary Evelyn Tucker, Bucknell University
The Inner Logic of Gandhian Ecology
Larry D. Shinn, Berea College
Gandhi and Deep Ecology
Vinay Lal, University of California, Los Angeles
Respondent:  Kamla Chowdhry,
Society for Promotion of Wasteland Development
1:30-3:30p.m.           Contemporary Ecological Issues
Forests
Chair:  John Grim, Bucknell University
If You Cut One Branch You Cut My Finger:
Court, Forest, and Environmental Ethics in Rajasthan
Ann Gold, Syracuse University
Sacred Plants and Forests:  Lessons from the Ramayana
David Lee, Florida International University
Sacred Groves and Ecology:  Ritual and Science
Frederique Apffel-Marglin, Smith College
Pramod Parajuli, Syracuse University
Respondent:  Frank J. Korom
Museum of International Folk Art, Sante Fe
4:00-5:50p.m.           Rivers
                        Chair:  Lawrence Sullivan
                        Center for the Study of World Religions
Separate Domains:
Hinduism, Politics and Environmental Pollution
Kelly D. Alley, Auburn University
River of Love in an Age of Pollution
David L. Haberman, Indiana University
Sacred Rivers, Sacred Dams:  Visions of Social Justice
and Sustainable Development along the Narmada
William Fisher, Harvard University
Circumambulating the Namada:
Damming a Sacred Landscape
Chris Deegan, The School for International Training
Respondent:  Anne Feldhaus, Arizona State University
Saturday, October 4
9:00-10:30a.m.          Women's Issues and Ecology
                                Chair:  Arvind Sharma, McGill University
Indian Feminist Responses and Challenges to
Environmental Population Paradigms
Jael Silliman, University of Iowa
The Ritual Capsule of Durga-Puja:  An Ecological Perspective
Madhu Khanna, Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts
Respondent:  Rachel McDermott, Barnard College
11:00-12:00 noon        Women's Issues and Ecology, Continued
                        Chair:  Christopher Key Chapple
                        Loyola Marymount University
Women and the Earth:  The Art of Symbolic Expression
Vijaya Nagarajan, University of San Francisco
Respondent:  Kusumita Pederson, St. Francis College
II.  Hinduism's Response to Ecological Issues
1:30-3:00p.m.           Literature as Ecological Resource
                        Chair:  John Grim, Bucknell University
Nature Romanticism and Violence in Rig Vedic Interpretation
Laurie L. Patton, Emory University
Environmental Consciousness
in the Dharmasastras and the Arthasastras
Mary McGee, Columbia University
Respondent:  Julius Lipner, University of Cambridge
3:30-5:00p.m.           Literature as Ecological Resource, Continued
                        Chair:  Lawrence Sullivan
                        Center for the Study of World Religions
In the Wilderness...What?
The Forest in the Sanskrit Epics
Philip Lutgendorf, University of Iowa
Literary Foundations for an Ecological Aesthetic
T.S. Rukmani, Concordia University
Respondent:  Frank X. Clooney, Boston College
7:30p.m.                Plenary Address
                        Chair:  Arvind Sharma, McGill University
Can Hindu Beliefs and Values
Help India Meet Its Ecological Crisis?
Anil Agarwal
Director, Centre for Science and Environment, New Delhi
Sunday October 5
9:00-10:30 a.m.         Krishna, the Bhagavad Gita, and Ecology
                                Chair:  Christopher Key Chapple,
                                Loyola Marymount University
Krishna and Vrindavan:  Theology and Play of Ecology
Shrivatsa Goswami, Sri Caitanya Prema Samsthana
Reading the Bhagavad Gita from an Ecological Perspective
Lance Nelson, University of San Diego
Practical Hindu Ecology
Ranchor Prime,
International Consultancy of Religion, Education and Culture
Respondent
David Eckel, Boston Univesity
11:00-12:30p.m.         General Session:
                                Panel Discussion on Policy Implications
                                Chair:  Mary Evelyn Tucker, Bucknell University
Participants:
Anil Agarwal, Centre for Science and Environment
Harry Blair, Bucknell University
Christopher Key Chapple, Loyola Marymount University
Kamla Chowdhry, Society for Promotion of Wasteland Development
Shrivatsa Goswami, Sri Caitanya Prema Samsthana
T.N. Khoshoo, Tata Energy Research Institute
Arvind Sharma, McGill University
