Dravidian Cryptology
On Sun.7 Sep. 1997 at 17:04:55 +0500 Devarakonda Venkata Narayana Sarma
(narayana at hd1.vsnl.net.in) wrote:
that >inversion/substitution (if it is there) is exclusively tamilian.
On Wed 10 Sep. 1997 08::23::56 Devarakonda Venkata Narayana Sarma
(narayana at hd1.vsnl.net.in) wrote:
ending is >necessary to get 'nAgaram', I meant to say, as far as this word is
concerned the >inversion/substitution (if it exists, yes if it exists) is
exclusively of tamilian origin.
nAgaram is an inverted and substituted form of Murugan, who is also known by
the name Subrahmanya. I never tried to derive nAgaram from kumara or kumaran
(in fact I never wrote Kumara's name as Kumaran). The inverted and
substituted forms of Kumara are aru muka meaning: six face(s) which Kumara is
reputed to have, and ara maga meaning: king's son (which is the same meaning
for the word kumara which has been used in Sanskrit thus). It is clear by the
above two statements, that Sarma  is confused, to say the least, about this
matter.
I have noted repeatedly that the results of the linguistic phenomenon of
inversion and substitution are to be witnessed in all the Dravidian
languages, and there is no point in ascribing it exclusively to any one
Dravidian tongue, even on the basis of one, word, term or name.
In view of the fact that Sarma still says 'if it exists, yes if it exists''
in tamil, I have added another Appendix (f) to the work on the Internet
 ( http://www.mninter.net/~kumar/ ), pointing out some illustrations of the
operation of this phenomenon involving many Tamil words. These participating
Tamil words must be considered as the tip of the iceberg, for they constitute
only a tiny fraction of the total number of Tamil words which participate in
this phenomenon. My statement that I can show as many participating Tamil
words as I have shown in Kannada, and more, still stands. They are there if
one only tries to observe them. This phenomenon is the cornerstone of all
Dravidian languages. Period.  Best regards.
V. Keerthi Kumar  (http://www.mninter.net/~kumar/ )
