Tobacco (rolled in cryptography)
 DERIVATIONS OF CERTAIN KEY WORDS IN GONZALEZ REIMANNS POSTS(RESEARCH
PAPER):-)
Luis Gonzalez Reimann writes:
                                             ------------
Aha! You didn't know that Queztalcoatl was derived from Skt + Hindi
"Shvetaachala Kotwal" did you? i.e. he was a Kotwal in India and came
from some place called Shvetaachalam....
America is derived  from "Amiron kaa desh"( country of rich people!)
i.e. "amironkaa" became America:-)
Isn't Catholic the european mispronounciation of Kathakali?( they
dropped a "k" inbetween)....
Thomas is derived from Dharma i.e. Skt Dharma- Dhamma- Thaama- Thoma
( The "s" at the end of Thomas stands for Sanskrit, it is a secret
shorthand for keeping track of where they copied the word from)...
"Mexica" is derived from Sanskrit "Makshika"( mosquito) when the
Indians( the true blueblooded variety,, not the false variety:-) found
in this country, came from Bharat to this country and were so shocked to
see the huge mosquitoes in Mexico that they named it "Makshikadesha"
which got shortened to "Mexico")
The word "dominican" being used here is further proof of the fact stated
above, becauuse "dOma"( as in dominican) is "mosquito" in Telugu....
Servando is a vikrti of sarvAnanda, Teresa is a corruption of
"patresha"( Patresh is a name in Bengal), de Mier is from "Dheemar"
( a village in the Konkan) people from this village took on the name
Dheemarkar i.e. Sarvaananda Patresha Dheemarkar was a converted Goan
Christian
Messiah is derived from Sanskrit "Moksha" i.e. Moksha became Mosha which
became Messiah, also Moses is derived from "Moksha"...therefore
"Mokshadaayaka" became Hebrew Messiah....if you wondering where the
"iah" ending in "Messiah" came from, may I point out it also appears in
names like Ramiah, Krishniah etc....
"Mormon" is derived from "Koorman" i.e. the "koormAvatara..."
"Israel" is from "Ishvara"( The "v" became a "l" and got misplaced), the
"Sh'ma Israel" i.e. the prayer that is formally recited at the begining
of any Jewish ritual is actually from "Kshama Ishvara")...as for all the
Mormons settling in Salt Lake City and Utah and their derivations ,
please refer to my earlier *research paper* *published* yesterday in
"Daily Journal of Indology":-).....
The above *research paper*, researched and written by me over a period
of FIFTEEN MINUTES( yes fifteen loooooooong minutes) proves the above
statement beyond all doubt.Please also note that fiction, sometimes
passes for fact....
P.S: Dunno about Luis, but Gonzalez is a corruption of "gangAjalesh" ( I
know that in Tamil Nadu, there are temples like gangAdheeShvarar and
jalangAdheeshvarar, gangajalesh is a very clever way of combining the
names of these two dieties) Reimann is obviously from Skt"ShreemAn":-)
Cheers,
Krishna
Get Your Private, Free Email at http://www.hotmail.com
