Samskrit Correspondence Course in USA/Canada
                   vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                    SAMSKRIT THROUGH CORRESPONDENCE
                                   by
                           SAMSKRITA BHARATI
                 mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
After successfully conducting a series of Samskrit camps, Samskrita
Bharati announces yet another major event - the launching of
Samskrit through Correspondence in United States and Canada !
  Unique features
    * Simple interesting lessons accompanied by AUDIO cassettes.
      Subhashitas, Stories, puzzles, glimpses of Samskrit literature
      along with an innovative method of language learning !
    * No prior knowledge of Samskrit assumed.
    * At the end of the course, you will be able to study Samskrit
      scriptures like Bhagavad Gita, Ramayana etc. all by yourself !
    * Every lesson contains a question paper and every grade has an
      examination. A panel of teachers will correct your answer papers
      and mail it back to you. Certificate awarded to every successful
      participant.
    * All your doubts/questions on the lessons will be answered by mail.
  Details :
        Medium of instruction   : English
        Number of grades        : Four (Pravesha, Parichaya, Shiksha,
                                        Kovida)
        Duration of each grade  : Six months
        Number of lessons/grade : 12 Books + Audio cassettes
        Mailing of lessons      : October 1st, 1997
                                    Two lessons will be mailed every month
        Fees for each grade     : US $ 60 (Sixty US Dollars only)
                                    includes shipping and handling charges
Currently we are taking registrations for the first grade (Pravesha).
Mailing of lessons will commence from October 1st. Hurry up !
Fill in the registration form and mail your check to following address
        Convener, Samskrit through Correspondence
        Samskrita Bharati
        1044, Lancer Drive
        San Jose, CA  95129
        Phone : (408) 253-6160
        Email:  sanskrit-corr at hindunet.org
Make your check payable to "Samskrita Bharati".
Samskrita Bharati is a registered non-profit organization in India
for promotion of Samskrit worldwide.
Visit us at http://www.hindunet.org/sanskrit
xxx-------------------- CUT HERE --------------------------------xxx
                     Application  for PRAVESHA ( I Grade)
 Last Name :                      First Name :
 Mailing Address:
 Phone :                           Email :
 Occupation :                      Education :
 Date :                            Signature :
xxx-------------------  CUT HERE ---------------------------------xxx
