In a reply, S. Palaniappan (Palaniappa at aol.com) wrote:
Without having access to your full paper and some Dravidian linguistics
publications,  here are some comments.
Coincidentally, I have been thinking about the radical vowel length
variation in connection with my research related to pA, pan2uval, pAr,
para etc. In one of my earlier postings, I said, "Another word with
the meaning $extend/spread=$ is $para/paravu$ (DED 3255), which, I
strongly feel, is related to the root $pA$. (I think the process is
similar to tA-taru, and vA/varu.)"  There are other verbs like
no/nO which could  belong to this category. V. S. Rajam discusses
such words in her book "A reference grammar of Classical Tamil Poetry"
, p.69.
I think when you say "*wehn- 'hear'", you actually refer to the verb
root often transliterated as "ve" meaning 'heat'. If that is right,
there is no need for an 'n' in the root. Following your model, veh-
 should be enough.
Based on some words like pA, pan2uval, kaHsu, kaHRen2a, your model
needs to consider alternation of H with l and r also.
Also, if the morphophonemic rule concerning words ending in l or L as
 in kal or muL followed by a dental t changing to R and T respectively
 applied to all words, then in your model won't all words with roots
with a short radical vowel and ending in l or L have  the "H"
inserted between the vowel and l/L? For instance kaL (toddy) will
have to be kaHL. (Actually, there is a word cited by V. S. Rajam
"kaHTu" meaning toddy which occurs in PuRanAn2URu 319.4)
 How does this affect the case of paHtu (ten)?
The medieval grammar nan2n2Ul addresses this problem in one of its
puNarcci rules. Although it does not reconstruct a H, the problem
it deals with is the same thing, although it does it in relation to
paNpuppeyarp puNarcci. An example is to combine pacumai (green)
and ilai (leaf). There are two alternate results possible,
paccilai and pAcilai. In connection with deriving the pAcilai form,
 the grammarian gives a rule to be applied "Ati nITal".. The
steps work out like this.
pacumai + ilai > pacu + ilai (rule: IRu pOtal)
pacu + ilai > pAcu + ilai (rule: Ati nITal)
pAcu + ilai > pAcilai (with the radical vowel being lengthened, u
becomes extra-short "u" which gets dropped when combining with a
 word beginning with a vowel)
It is the second stage which relates to your model. I think, in
your approach the root meaning green should be modeled "paHc".
By the way, is using "w" instead of "v" a new convention in Dravidian
linguistics? I have seen your own "Telugu Verbal Bases" and works by
P.S. Subrahmanyam, and others always using "v".
