Warburg Institute -- Mellon Research Fellowships 1998-99 (fwd)
Warburg Institute -- Mellon Research Fellowships 1998-99 (fwd)
(This information may also be found on the Warburg Institute homepage---
http://www.sas.ac.uk/warburg)
The Warburg Institute, London -- Mellon Research Fellowships for Scholars
in the humanities from Eastern Europe, 1998-99
The Warburg Institute
The Warburg Institute is dedicated to the interdisciplinary study of the
classical tradition - in the sense of those elements in European thought,
art and institutions that have evolved out of the cultures of the ancient
world.  Its Library and Photographic Collection are designed and arranged
to encourage research into the processes by which one culture learns from
another, and by which different fields of thought and art act on each
other.  They are particularly concerned with continuities between the
ancient Mediterranean civilizations and the cultural and intellectual
history of post-classical Europe, especially in the period to c. 1800,
and aim to document the tenacity of symbols and images in European art
and architecture, the persistence of motifs and forms in Western
languages and literatures, the gradual transition in Western thought from
magical beliefs to religion, science and philosophy, and the survival and
transformation of ancient patterns in social customs and political
institutions.
The Institute's resources comprise an open-access research library of
about 350,000 volumes, shelved with many thousands of offprints, some
3,000 journal titles and a reference collection of over 300,000
photographs complementing the material in the Library.
The Institute has an active programme of teaching, seminars, lectures and
colloquia, often arranged in collaboration with other institutions or
learned societies, both British and foreign.  Those working at the
Institute, including research fellows and scholars of many different
nationalities, are encouraged to present and discuss their research in
regular term-time seminars.
Mellon Research Fellowships
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has selected the Institute as one of the
institutes of advanced study in Western Europe to participate in a
Fellowship programme for Eastern European scholars in the humanities.
3 three-month Fellowships are available for tenure in 1998-99 in any area
falling within the interests of the Institute.
Eligibility:
The Fellowships are open to Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian,
and Slovak scholars.  Candidates should not be permanently resident
outside the four countries concerned.
Fellows should have obtained a doctorate or have equivalent experience.
The Fellowships are intended for younger postdoctoral scholars and,
although there is no specific age limit, preference will be given to
those under 40 years of age.
Fellows who have already held an award under this scheme are not eligible
for a second Fellowship at any of the participating institutions.
Value of Fellowships:
The value of the Fellowships will be the sterling equivalent of $11,500
each.  Given fluctuating exchange rates, the exact figure cannot be
predicted.
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, in making this grant, intends that it
should cover a stipend including all living and subsistence costs; travel
and shipping costs (including travel to and from England, and other trvel
during the Fellowship); health insurance; post-Fellowship expenses
(including acquisition of materials, subscriptions, hard- and soft-ware,
membership and publications costs).
These funds will be payable to Fellows after arrival at the Institute.
Tenure:
Term dates for 1998-99 are:  5 October - 11 December 1998; 11
January - 19 March 1999; 19 April - 25 June 1999.  At least two of the
three months of the Fellowship must fall within the Institute's terms.
Selection:
No interviews will be held.
Awards will be announced in May 1998.  All candidates will be informed of
the outcome of their application.
General:
Fellows will be expected to participate in the life of the Institute and
to put their knowledge at the disposal of the Institute by presenting
their work in a seminar and by advising the Library and Photographic
Collection.  Fellows may teach elsewhere during tenure of the Fellowship
only with the express permission of the Director.  They will be required
to present a brief written report at the conclusion of their
appointment.  A Fellowship may be terminated if the Apponting Committee
is not satisfied that the conditions fo the award are being met.  All
publications containing results of work done with the aid of a Fellowship
shall include adequate acknowledgement of the fact.
Applications:
Applications should be made by letter to the Director giving the
following information:
1.  A curriculum vitae giving full details of name, date of birth,
nationality, address and present occupation, school and university
education, degrees, teaching and research experience, publications
2.  An outline of proposed research
3.  Particulars of grants received, if any, for the same subject
4.  The names and addresses of two or three persons who have agreed to
write, without further invitation, to the Director in support of the
application.  These letters of reference should reach the Director by 6
April 1998.  It is the responsibility of candidates to ask their referees
to write to the Director by this date.
5.  Copies of published work should be submitted, if possible.
Candidates should indicate whether they wish these publications to be
returned, or whether they may be given to the Institute's Library.
Applications must arrive at the Institute no later than 1 April 1998.
Applications should be made by post.  Please do NOT make applications by
e-mail.  The postal address of the Institute is:
The Warburg Institute
University of London
Woburn Square, London WC1H 0AB
UK
Telephone:  071-580-9663
Fax:  071-436-2852
