From sns at IX.NETCOM.COM  Fri Dec  5 21:45:24 1997
From: sns at IX.NETCOM.COM (Sn. Subrahmanya)
Date: Fri, 05 Dec 97 15:45:24 -0600
Subject: Archaeologists discover remains of temple in Sehore
Message-ID: <161227034225.23782.2210712602349829885.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Archaeologists discover remains of temple in Sehore


Source: MP Chronicle

Archaeologists discover remains of temple in Sehore

Archaeologists have found a 2500 year old seal, vestiges of 2100 year old
temple and a brickwall of Gupta era besides many artifacts dating back to
6th century BC at Ninnaur village in Sehore district of Madhya Pradesh.

The recently concluded excavation carried out at a huge mound on the bank
of Narmada, has revealed the existence of five different dynasties - Maurya,
Sunga, Gupta, Parmar and Mughal - from different layers, the co-director
excavations, Dr. DK Mathur told PTI.

The excavations include a coin dated 6th century BC, a 2500 year old seal,
Brahmi and other inscriptions, earthenware, toys of terra-cotta, jewellery,
weapons, instruments, precious stones and the foundation of a 2100 year old
temple of Sunga era, he added. ``The brick-wall, with rare uniformity and
stone made floor of Gupta period, unearthed in layer four and five from
trench-2, may give vital clues to the housing plans of that time,'' Dr. Mathur
said, further adding that ``some experts even opine that full- fledged ancient
houses may be lying buried here.''

"We propose to carry out a horizontal excavation at the site next year to
explore such a possibility," he said.

The 6th century BC punch mark coin with an elephant and inscription in
Brahmi on one side and Swastik and Ujjaini signs and tree on the reverse,
coins of Mughal era and a supposedly royal terra-cotta seal of Maurya
period showing the `moon on a mountain', were also found at Ninnaur, Dr.
Mathur added.

The ancient temple of Sunga era, of which only elliptical foundation was
found, also had a soak-pit (ringwell) to drain out water, he said, adding a
sacrificial ladle used for yajnas had also been discovered from the site.
Temples of similar shapes and period have already been found in past
excavations in Dangwada (Ujjain) and Vishnagar (Vidisha) in the state.

Various types of ware unearthed include terra-cotta earthenware, small pots
used as lamps, black polished ware and other utensils alongwith a hearth,
hubble-bubble, grinding slab and a dabber presumably used by potters,
Dr. Mathur said.

Round and square beads made of terra-cotta, bones and precious shining
jasper stones are other important components of Ninnaur findings.

The site has also revealed various kind of jewellery including women's
earlobes, made of terra-cotta and several types of shining polished stones,
bracelets and `bichhua' besides a string of terra-cotta toys shaped like
horse, bull, sheep etc. and terra-cotta and stone balls.

The weapons and tools discovered at Ninnaur include arrow-heads, halberd
and bradawl. The Ninnaur findings would add an insight into the knowledge
of the religious background of various ancient civilisations besides the
history of the Narmada basin, say the experts adding that the proposed
horizontal excavations at the site may reveal new aspects of town planning
during Gupta period. The Ninnaur site is just 12 km from the Pan-Guradiya
village which revealed the famous Ashokan inscription in Brahmi in which
Ashoka's name was mentioned for the first time, Dr. Mathur said.




