Forwarded message: Panini Pratisthana
                          ------------------
                          PANINI PRATISTHANA
                          ------------------
                         INTERNATIONAL CENTER
                                 FOR
                    STUDIES OF CLASSICAL LANGUAGES
Corrospondance address:-
        c/o Mrs. S. V. Bhate
        15/46, "KRATU", Nirmal Baug,
        Parvati, Near Muktangan highschool.
        Pune - 411 009
        MAHARASHTRA
        INDIA
        email :- saroja at unipune.ernet.in
                 drbhate at giaspn01.vsnl.net.in
Board :-
        Settlors :
                    Mr. V. B. Bhagawat
                    "BHUSHAN",  Manoj Co-Op Hsg. Socity,
                    Gultekdi. Pune - 411 037
                    Mr. S. D. Joshi
                    1317, Shrukrawar Peth,
                    Pune - 411 002
        Trustee :
                    Mrs. S. V. Bhate
                    15/46, "KRATU", Nirmal Baug,
                    Parvati, Near Muktangan highschool.
                    Pune - 411 009
                    Mrs. H. V. Dole
                    "BHUSHAN",  Manoj Co-Op Hsg. Socity,
                    Gultekdi. Pune - 411 037
                    Mr. V. B. Bhagawat
                    "BHUSHAN",  Manoj Co-Op Hsg. Socity,
                    Gultekdi. Pune - 411 037
Aims and Objective :
        *  To promote and encourage study of Panini's Scheme of
           Grammar both in traditional and modern methodes.
        *  To promote and encourage fundamental research in the
           Panini Tradition.
        *  To promote and encourage study of manuscripts in
           ancient Indian Languages and scripts.
        *  To promote and encourage study of classical languages
           such as Sanskrit, Pali, Prakrit, Avesta, Tibetan,
           Greek and Latin.
        *  To promote and encourage study of other Indian Languages
           as well as other Universal Languages such as  German,
           French etc.
        *  To provide facilities for the fulfilment of the above
           objectives.
        *  To publish monographs, editions, translations, journals,
           felicitations and commemoration volumes and other litrature
           related to the above subjects.
        *  To organize courses, seminars, conferences, workshops,
           schools and shastrarthas on the above and related subjects.
        *  To conduct written and oral examinations in the above subjects
           and to give certificates to those who pass the examinations,
           including examinations of other academic Institutions.
        *  To prepare curriculum and syllabus for conducting such
           examinations.
        *  To distribute prizes, awards and scholarships to deserving
           students, scholars and Pandits in recognition of their
           achievements in the above subjects as well as to enable them
           to pursue their studies.
        *  To collect funds and donations in order to carry out the above
           objectives.
        *  To collaborate with other Institutes for organising any of
           the programs related to the above subjects.
        *  To acquire by gift, purchase, exchange, lease, hire or otherwise
           any property movable and/or immovable and to construct, improve,
           alter, demolish or repair buildings and structures as may be
           necessary or convenient for carrying on the activities of the
           center.
        *  For the purpose of the center, to draw and accept and make and
           endorse, discount and negotiate Goverment of India and other
           Promissory Notes, Bills of Exchange, cheques or other negotiable
           instruments.
        *  To give donations to other instutions with simillar aims and
           objectives.
        *  To takeover the entire activities of the other Institute having
           simillar activities, along with their assets and liabilities.
Appeal :
        This is appeal to all the Orientological and Indological
        community to extend their co-operation to this organization
        in terms of consultation, informations, collaboration,
        participation and financial assistance.
        Mrs. S. V. Bhate
          Managing Trustee
