From magier at COLUMBIA.EDU  Thu Feb 27 20:52:17 2003
From: magier at COLUMBIA.EDU (David Magier)
Date: Thu, 27 Feb 03 15:52:17 -0500
Subject: position announcement: S.Asia Curator
Message-ID: <161227072428.23782.13928297350904296140.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

The following job posting is being forwarded to your listserv or
mailing list from the ACADEMIC POSITIONS section of SARAI. Please
contact job posters directly for any further information.
David Magier
http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/indiv/southasia/cuvl

=======
POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT:
Curator, South Asia Collection
(Cornell University Library)

  Cornell University Library (CUL) seeks a curator for its South Asia
  Collection. Housed on the main level of the innovative Carl A.
  Kroch Library for Special Collections, the South Asian Collection
  holds over 300,000 volumes and serves as the principal information
  resource for Cornell's South Asia Program, a Title VI National
  Resource Center.

  The curator manages the collections and services for a diverse
  community of students and scholars working on India, Pakistan, Sri
  Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. The successful candidate will work
  closely with colleagues who curate the Library's East Asian
  (Wason) and Southeast Asian (Echols) collections and as a member
  of the newly-formed CUL organization, Instruction, Research and
  Information Services (IRIS). IRIS is the largest of the CUL
  organizations, with over 150 staff members from Olin and Uris
  Libraries who work collaboratively to support instruction and
  learning, public services, research, preservation, collection
  development and public programming. The world renowned Asia
  Collections plus the Africana, Fine Arts, and Music Libraries round
  out the membership of IRIS.

  Responsibilities: The curator will report to the Director of World
  Area Collections. Responsibilities include selection of print and
  digital information resources, identifying materials for housing in the
  Library Annex, making preservation decisions, liaison with faculty
  and students, fund raising, specialized reference and instruction,
  budget management and staff supervision.

  Requirements: M.L.S. or significant experience in library, archival
  or academic administration and an appropriate advanced degree.
  Demonstrated academic strength in relevant subject areas;
  knowledge of the languages, histories, cultures and book markets of
  South Asia; appreciation of digital developments in the region.
  Excellent communication skills.

  Desired: At least three years experience in an academic library.
  Supervisory experience. Active participation in professional
  organizations.

  Application: Applications requested by April 15, 2003. Review of
  applications will begin immediately, and continue until the position
  is filled. Salary and rank will be dependent upon qualifications and
  experience. Please send cover letter, resume, and the names and
  phone numbers of three references to:

  Susan Markowitz, Director
  Library Human Resources
  201 Olin Library, Cornell University
  Ithaca, New York 14853-5301
  e-mail: libhr at cornell.edu




