without being able to say what was the original wording. From the
context one would expect an adverb referring to dhikk.rtena.
        In line 4 of the Tibetan stanza we find bkren gyur in the place
of the second dhikk.rtena. There can be little doubt that bkren gyur
render Skt. k.rpa.nena. This is much more reasonable than the strange
repetition of dhikk.rtena and moreover the metre becomes correct.
Nevertheless the remains one problem in the Sanskrit text and two in the
Tibetan text. As for the Tibetan text we don't have an equivalent of
hetunaa but an unnecessary nyid. I am strongly convinced that in the
last line the original translation ran *'chi ba'i rgyu yin mod. This
yields a perfect sense in accordance (?) with the Sanskriti original:
"What is the use of that life by which heaven and dharma will be destroyed?
It is indeed the cause of my death, who am a miserable (being), despised
('defeated') by the wise."
zil gyis mnan pa "overcome, defeated" is nothing but a mechanical
rendering of paribhuuta which here, of course, means "despised."
The transmitted text would have to be translated as:
"I,  a miserable (being) who is depised ('defeated') by the wise, am
indeed (mod) nothing but (nyid) dying ('chi ba)." This is rather
nonsensical and not in accordance with the Sanskrit.
A real problem, in my opinion, is svargasya dharmalopo. The Tibetan
translates either *svargadharmalopo or *svargyasya ca dharmasya ca
lopo which is sensible but unmetrical in bith cases. If dharma were not
attested by the Tibetan I would boldly suggest to read svargaapavargalopo which would
yield a nice meaning and suits the metre, and the dvandva svargaapavarga
is, as you know, well attested in Buddhist literature. Maybe someone who
reads this has a better idea.
It was fun to think the passage over again. In my copy of
Mukhopadhyaya's re-edition of the text I found a pencil mark "Metre!"
and the emendation "mara.nam aa"su", written many years ago, obviouslz
when I compared the Sanskrit with the Tibetan translation, but no comment on
svargasya dharmalopo and the second dhikk.rtena. I seem to have
overlooked these problems in the second Arya stanza at that time.
With kind regards,
Michael
Prof. Dr. Michael Hahn
Ritterstr. 14
D-35287 Amoeneburg
Fax: +49-6422-938967
E-mail: hahn.m at t-online.de
