From Hahn.M at T-ONLINE.DE  Sat Oct 11 10:57:54 2003
From: Hahn.M at T-ONLINE.DE (Michael Hahn)
Date: Sat, 11 Oct 03 12:57:54 +0200
Subject: Fw: Two stanzas in the Kunalavadana
Message-ID: <161227073300.23782.11172850429917388064.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Forwarded by Michael Hahn <hahn.m at t-online.de>
----------------------- Original Message -----------------------
From:    Michael Hahn <hahn.m at t-online.de>
To:      silk at HUMNET.UCLA.EDU
Date:    Fri, 10 Oct 2003 23:00:18 +0200
Subject: Two stanzas in the Kunalavadana
----

Dear Jonathan,

        As Roland Steiner and Martin Gansten already wrote the two
stanzas are indeed composed in the Arya metre. Roland also pointed to
the two metrical defects. Neither of them mentioned the textual problems
in connections with the two metrical defects that make the stanzas
somewhat difficult to translate.  I believe the correct text  can easily
be restored with the help of the canonical Tibetan translation of the
Kunalavadana that was done by Padmakaravarma and Rin chen bzang po. By
the way: it is a great pity that a critical edition of this translation
has so far not been published although it is anything else but a
masterpiece.  However, it is extremely important in connection with the
(literary) development of the Asoka legend. There are considerable
deviations from from the Sanskrit text.
        Mukhopadhyaya's reedition and translation of the Sanskrit text
would have profited more from the consultation of the Tibetan
translation than of the two Chinese translations. I am sure that the
Tibetan Kunalavadana has been studied by various colleagues. I know of
an unpublished MA thesis written under Prof. Adelheid Mette at the
University of Muenster several years ago, however I had no chance to see
it. My friend and colleague Konrad Klaus (University of Bonn) has
prepared an edition of the Tibetan text a long time ago (as yet
unpublished) of which I have an early draft that gives the readings of
the Peking (Q) and Derge (D) editions, however without the philological
notes he also prepared. Even that was a great help in quickly finding
the passage in question. - While being in Japan last month I came to see
a journal of the Ryukoku University edited by Prof. Esho Mikogami. The
last two issues contain the first two instalments of a Japanese
translation of the Tibetan Kunalavadana.  At present I can give you no
details since the volumes are not with me but on on their way to Germany.
Unfortunately this translation is not accompanied by the Tibetan text.

        The Tibetan translation of the two stanzas runs as follows:

| chos ni rnam dag gyur na bdag ni myur (mi myur Q) du 'chi bar gnas par gyur kyang bla |
| skye bo dam pas bdag smad gyur pa'i 'tsho ba bdag la dgos ma yin |
| gang las mtho ris dag dang chos 'jig 'gyur ba'i 'tsho (tsho Q) des ci zhig bya |
| mkhas pas zil gyis mnan pa'i bkren gyur bdag ni 'chi ba nyid yin mod | <19>

In the Tibetan translation this is stanza 19 whereas in the Sanskrit
text it is stanza 9. Two things are noteworthy. 1) The two translators recognized
the metrical structure. 2) They translated the two stanzas as one
Tibetan stanza with the irregular structure of 17+15+15+15 syllables.
Usually the Arya stanza is rendered by 4 x 9 syllables or, as in
Ravigupta's Aryakosa, by 4 x 7 syllables which creates some difficulties.
I suspect that the translators did not recognize the metre.
        The Tibetan translation solves the metrical and textual problem of
the first stanza. We simply have to read mama bhavatu mara.nam aa"su. I
think it is obvious that this is the correct text.
        In the second half of the first stanza you omitted -inadvertently
or deliberately - the jana after sajjana. For metrical reasons it is
required, however content-wise it is difficult to account for. The
Tibetan translation seems to have bdag as the equivalent of jana which
is again difficult to explain and moreover this bdag is superfluous in
view of the following bdag la. Hence I suspect that bdag is corrupt
