From drdj at austin.utexas.edu  Fri Feb  5 21:25:04 2016
From: drdj at austin.utexas.edu (Donald R Davis)
Date: Fri, 05 Feb 16 21:25:04 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Position Announcement: Lecturer in Sanskrit, University of Texas at Austin
Message-ID: <D2DA6F50.66FA%drdj@austin.utexas.edu>

http://apply.interfolio.com/33937

The Department of Asian Studies at the University of Texas at Austin is seeking a full-time lecturer in the Sanskrit language, to begin September 1st, 2016.  The successful candidate will be responsible for teaching three courses per semester (one each at the elementary and intermediate levels, plus a content course in an appropriate discipline, preferably in the fields of literature, religious studies, or cultural history).  The ability to teach courses in a modern South Asian vernacular at the advanced level will be considered a plus.  Located at the flagship campus of the University of Texas System, the Department of Asian Studies provides an excellent and exciting context for teaching and research in the classical and modern languages of the South Asian region.

QUALIFICATIONS
Candidates should have a minimum of a Master's degree (Ph.D. is preferred) in Sanskrit or a related field and a record of teaching excellence in the university context.  The successful candidate will be required to complete the Federal Employment Eligibility Verification form, I-9, and will be required to present acceptable and original documents to prove identity and authorization to work in the United States.  The University of Texas at Austin is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer committed to a diverse faculty, staff, and student body.  Women and minority candidates are strongly encouraged to apply.

APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS
Interested candidates are invited to upload: 1) a cover letter detailing qualifications and teaching experience, 2) a detailed curriculum vitae, and 3) three confidential letters of recommendation.  The deadline for applications is March 15, 2016.  Please direct all questions to Dr. Martha Selby at mas at austin.utexas.edu  with the words "Sanskrit search" in the subject line.



-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20160205/68dfaad8/attachment.htm>

