>From $565/Night




*Special discounts for Congress attendees. Some of these rates will expire as the date of the Congress moves closer, so make sure to book at least a month in advance of the proceedings.

An updated list of accommodations will be available on the Congress website after registration begins, so please check the website regularly after this date. The Third Circular, due in April, 2017, will also contain more information about accommodations.

Conference Travel Grants
Unfortunately we are not able to provide any grants or scholarships to participants or presenters for this Congress.

Website
I urge you to consult our website regularly for updates and practical information about the upcoming Congress at http://www.iabs2017-uoft.ca/. We will be sure to update it regularly.

Third Circular
In a year from now, April 2017, I will send forth the Third Circular, the final notice before the Congress proceedings in August of that same year. The Third Circular will include a detailed academic program, further information about evening events and excursions, as well as up to date travel and accommodation information.

I truly look forward to seeing everyone in Toronto, 2017.

My warmest regards
Christoph Emmrich

Planning Committee of the XVIIIth IABS Congress

 President:

Anne MacDonald

 Chair:

Christoph Emmrich


 Members:

Wendi Adamek, University of Calgary



James Apple, University of Calgary



Dan Arnold, University of Chicago



James Benn, McMaster University



Lara Braitstein, McGill University



Chen Shen, Royal Ontario Museum



Jinhua Chen, University of British Columbia



Shayne Clarke, McMaster University



Deepali Dewan, Royal Ontario Museum



David Drewes, University of Manitoba



Frances Garrett, University of Toronto



Amanda Goodman, University of Toronto



Nam-Lin Hur, University of British Columbia



Chiara Letizia, Universit? de Qu?bec



Jessica Main, University of British Columbia



Jason Neelis, Wilfrid Laurier University



Mark Rowe, McMaster University



Alicia Turner, York University



Jeff Wilson, University of Waterloo

 Advisory Board:

Collett Cox, University of Washington



Birgit Kellner, Austrian Academy of Sciences



Ulrich Pagel, University of London



Tom Tillemans, University of Lausanne


 Academic Coordination:

Anthony Scott, University of Toronto






Correspondent
Dr. Christoph Emmrich, Associate Professor
Chair, Planning Committee of the XVIIIth IABS Congress
University of Toronto, Department for the Study of Religion
170 St. George Street, Toronto, Ontario M5R 2M8
Canada
E-mail: christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca



-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20160430/fc0557a6/attachment.htm>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: IABS2017SecondCircularletterattachment.pdf
Type: application/pdf
Size: 501368 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20160430/fc0557a6/attachment.pdf>

