From alanus1216 at yahoo.com  Sat Apr 30 13:09:31 2016
From: alanus1216 at yahoo.com (Allen Thrasher)
Date: Sat, 30 Apr 16 13:09:31 +0000
Subject: Fw: [consald] Fwd: AISLS: JOB ANNOUNCEMENT: Executive Director,	AISLS Colombo Center, Half-time Position.
In-Reply-To: <CANA44t1PDvv_1vo1ZhjuTnSAKy-kR2aa-P=1_gxBcmSSJp2qOw@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <1001914183.5263649.1462021771712.JavaMail.yahoo@mail.yahoo.com>



Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android 
 
  On Fri, Apr 29, 2016 at 10:45 PM, Edward Proctor<edwardproctor at gmail.com> wrote:   FYI,

ESP

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: John Rogers <us.director.aisls at gmail.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Apr 2016 22:06:59 -0400
Subject: AISLS: JOB ANNOUNCEMENT: Executive Director, AISLS Colombo
Center, Half-time Position.
To: aisls-l at lists.pdx.edu

Dear Colleagues,

Please share this job announcement with any qualified potential applicants.

John Rogers


*Executive Director, American Institute for Lankan Studies (AILS), Colombo
5.*

*Half-time position.*



The American Institute for Lankan Studies (AILS) is a non-profit company
that carries out the programmes of the American Institute for Sri Lankan
Studies <http://www.aisls.org> (AISLS), a consortium of US universities
that promotes social science and humanities scholarship by US-based
scholars and builds links between American and Sri Lankan scholars and
institutions.



The AILS Executive Director reports to the AISLS office in the United
States.? He or she is responsible for all aspects of AILS operations.? Duties
include:

1)? ? ? ? ? ? Providing support and advice for visiting foreign researchers
on matters such as visas, housing, transportation and health, and assisting
them in making contacts with Sri Lankan scholars and organizations.

2)? ? ? ? ? ? Administering AISLS workshops and supporting other AISLS
programmes, such as those for language instruction and for the preservation
and dissemination of research resources.

3)? ? ? ? ? ? Supervising other AILS staff.

4)? ? ? ? ? ? Maintaining the AILS premises and facilities, including its
library and computer systems, in good working order.

5)? ? ? ? ? ? Ensuring that AILS fulfills the requirements of the Companies
Act and other relevant regulations of the government of Sri Lanka, and that
the annual audit is carried out in a timely manner.



Applicants should be fluent in English and Sinhala.? Knowledge of Tamil is
desirable.



Applicants should have an undergraduate degree, administrative experience
in the non-profit or public sector, and be sympathetic to AISLS goals.
Postgraduate
study is not required, but is desirable.? Educational qualifications need
not be in the humanities or social sciences, but applicants should have a
general interest in these fields as well as familiarity with the Sri Lankan
higher education system.? Prior study or residence outside Sri Lanka is
desirable.



The position requires interacting constructively with a broad range of
individuals, including foreign scholars and students, Sri Lankan government
officials, Sri Lankan university staff, and local patrons of the AILS
library.? Tact and interpersonal skills are thus essential.



This is a half time position.? Salary will be commensurate with previous
experience and qualifications.



To apply, send a resume and cover letter detailing how your previous
experiences suit you for this position to Dr. John Rogers, US Director,
American Institute for Sri Lankan Studies, at us.director.aisls at gmail.com.? The
resume should include the names and contact information of two
referees.? Application
deadline is 6 June 2016.? We plan to carry out interviews in Colombo on 1
August and 2 August 2016.



Informal inquiries may be addressed to John Rogers at the email address
given above.
  


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20160430/ce7f1605/attachment.htm>

