From christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca  Thu Sep  8 16:10:55 2016
From: christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca (Christoph Emmrich)
Date: Thu, 08 Sep 16 16:10:55 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] XVIIIth IABS Congress, Toronto, 2017, paper submission deadline reminder
Message-ID: <A929715192348C4380B851AA5A08ACBA5F258128@ArborExMBx2P.UTORARBOR.UTORAD.Utoronto.ca>

Dear Colleagues,


This is a quick and brief reminder meant for all those who may like to be reminded of the date and who are still considering to present at the XVIIIth IABS Congress in Toronto, August 20-25, 2017. The deadline for individual paper submissions is October 1, 2016, and hence not too far away. For context, I am recirculating the Second Circular: please find it pasted below.


Looking forward to hearing from you, with warm regards,
Christoph Emmrich


----

XVIIIth Congress of the International Association of Buddhist Studies (IABS): Second Circular


Dear Colleagues, Dear Friends:


Preparations are well underway for the XVIIIth Congress of the International Association of Buddhist Studies (IABS), which takes place at the University of Toronto, August 20th to the 25th, 2017. On behalf of the IABS, my university, and the conference?s Planning Committee, I kindly send you this Second Circular to share the panels that will be presented, to invite individual papers for the panels and sections here proposed, and to encourage all IABS members and supporters to attend the Congress in Toronto.


General Information

This Congress is a unique opportunity for Buddhist Studies scholars from around the world to convene and celebrate the excellence of our field. As Chair of the Planning Committee, I enthusiastically encourage you to circulate this Second Circular to colleagues, students, on message boards, electronic forums and on social media. This Second Circular is sent to all current IABS members, those who have filled out the electronic ?Mailing List? request form on the website, and to those who wrote me directly. We strive to convene as inclusive a Congress as possible, and welcome the attendance of a diverse range of scholars, students and supporters.


I would once again kindly remind everyone that they must be a fully paid member of IABS for the year 2017 in order to attend the event, deliver a paper, or sit on a panel in Toronto. To be a member of the association in 2017, those wishing to participate in the Congress will need to pay their IABS dues by December 31, 2016. All participants will also need to pay a Congress registration fee used to help us cover the cost of hosting the event, stipulated below. IABS membership can be secured through the online form at the IABS website: www.iabsinfo.net<http://www.iabsinfo.net>. Kindly keep in mind that on registration, to complete the process aspiring participants will be required to provide proof of payment of their IABS dues for 2017. Initial enquiries about eligibility should be sent to the association?s Secretary General, Dr. Ulrich Pagel (up1 at soas.ac.uk<mailto:up1 at soas.ac.uk>).

Submission of panel proposals for the Congress has already closed, and I, along with the Planning Committee, would like to generously thank all those who took time to submit their panel proposals. Given the high volume of submissions?an IABS record?not every panel was accepted, though all were of superior quality and testify to the wide-ranging excellence of our field.


Submission of individual paper abstracts for both panels and sections (each of which is outlined below) opens May 15th, 2016, and closes October 1st, 2016. Please note that individual paper abstracts cannot be accepted after October 1st, 2016, so be sure to take note of the deadline.


Congress registration opens October 1st, 2016, and closes just prior to the start of the proceedings, August 18th, 2017. Registration any time between these dates is permitted. Please see below for further details on how to register, as well as to the amenities covered by the fee.


Though our field spans a myriad of linguistic regions and our members represent the most diverse language backgrounds, it is IABS policy that official Congress proceedings, including papers and presentations, be conducted in an English-language medium.


As all future communication will be distributed via email, I encourage those who wish to attend or stay abreast of Congress news to fill out the electronic ?Mailing List? request form found at our website: http://www.iabs2017-uoft.ca/contact/. Please write to me, Christoph Emmrich, directly, if you have any questions or concerns about future communication. My address is found at the bottom of this circular under ?Correspondent,? or at the above website address.


Academic Program

In following with past Congresses, the proceedings in Toronto will consist of both panel presentations and paper sections. Panels have been proposed by their respective convenors, and will consist of no more than six papers, each 20 minutes in length, each followed by a 10 minute discussion period. All told, panels will last half a day, including a coffee and tea break after the first three papers. The organizers and I will strive to ensure that papers in each panel begin and end in unison to allow participants to attend select papers from multiple panels.


Sections, in contrast, have been chosen in accordance with past Congresses and are to be compiled from individual paper submissions. They will follow the same format as panels in terms of time and duration: 20 minutes for delivery and 10 minutes of question and answer period immediately following each paper. Please be advised that in the event an insufficient number of qualified entries are made to a given section, the Planning Committee and I reserve the right to decide to cancel the said section and reassign the papers accepted to another, thematically equivalent section as well as the time slot to another section with a surplus of submissions.


Individual Paper Proposals

I cordially invite scholars, students, and independent researchers from across the spectrum of Buddhist Studies to submit abstracts for individual papers, starting May 15th, 2016. Paper abstracts should be no more than 500 words, and preferably in both word and PDF format. In order to contribute a paper to an individual section, please upload abstracts to the Congress website at http://www.iabs2017-uoft.ca/, indicating which section the abstract will address. Please limit your selection to one section. The list of sections is found below. It has been chosen with the aim of being both representative of the traditional profile of the Congress and as inclusive as possible. Some submissions might fit under several section headers, though only one presentation per participant is permitted.


Indeed, to ensure a smooth and balanced program that allows for maximum participation, attendees are limited to act in only one official capacity at the Congress: this limit extends to presenting a paper, convening a panel, or acting as designated discussant. If one has any questions pertaining to this limit, please contact me directly at the correspondence address listed below.


The following are the sections proposed for the XVIIIth IABS Congress:


?gama and Nik?ya Studies

Abhidharma Studies

Buddhism and Gender

Buddhism and Its Relation to Other Religions

Buddhism and Its Relation to Science

Buddhism and Society

Buddhism and the ?rama?as

Buddhist Art and Architecture

Buddhist Hermeneutics, Scholasticism, and Commentarial Techniques

Buddhist Literature

Buddhist Music

Buddhist Places

Buddhist Sciences

Contemporary Buddhism

Early Buddhism

Epigraphy, Manuscripts, and Codicology

Epistemology and Logic in Buddhism

Information Technologies in Buddhist Studies

Mah?y?na Buddhism

Mah?y?na S?tras

?r?vakay?na Buddhism, incl. Therav?da

Tantric Buddhism

The Canonical Languages of Buddhism

Vinaya Studies



Panels, unlike sections, are organized by their respective convenor(s), who are responsible for their academic standard, thematic cohesion, and timely submission. Should you wish to contribute a paper towards the conference that in your eyes may fit one of the announced panels, you should contact the convenor(s) directly through the email addresses provided below, before submitting a paper proposal to one of the sections. All decisions regarding acceptance of paper proposals are made by the convenor(s). Once panels have been filled, their convenor(s) can close the panels and direct further submissions to paper sections instead. We welcome convenors to also present on their respective panels (this being the only exception to the one-capacity rule stated above), but also request them to ensure that no more than six papers constitute any one panel and to remind their panelists that they may not commit to joining other panels. Convenors should email a complete package of paper abstracts directly to me no later than October 1st, 2016.


Below is a list of accepted panels for the XVIIIth IABS Congress in Toronto:

Title


Convenor(s)


Email(s)


A New Study of Ratn?kara??nti?s Praj??p?ramitopade?a


Katsura, Shoryu

Hong, Luo


shoryukatsura at nifty.com



Approaches to the Bodhicary?vat?ra


Gold, Jonathan C.


jcgold at princeton.edu


Bell Inscriptions Across the Buddhist World


Doney, Lewis

Bretfeld, Sven


doney.lewis at gmail.com

sven.bretfeld at ntnu.no


Brahmin Buddhists


Walser, Joseph


joseph.walser at tufts.edu


Buddhism from the Margins: Using Manuscript Sources to Re-examine the Rituals and Routines of Medieval and Early Modern Buddhist Communities in Japan, Korea, and China


Keyworth, George A.


george.keyworth at gmail.com


Buddhism in the S?tav?hana Empire: The Languages of the S?tav?hanas and the Languages of Buddhism


Ollett, Andrew


andrew.ollett at gmail.com


Buddhist Conceptions of History


Thompson, Luke


lnt2106 at columbia.edu


Buddhist Cosmology and Astral Science


Mak, Bill M.


bill.m.mak at gmail.com


Buddhist Landscapes Made and Remade


Carbine, Jason A.


jcarbine at whittier.edu


Buddhist Studies and the Scientific Study of Meditation


Braun, Erik

McMahan, David


ecb2j at eservices.virginia.edu

david.mcmahan at fandm.edu


Buddhist Tourism: Sacred Sites within Global Networks


Bruntz, Courtney

Schedneck, Brooke


bruntzc at oregonstate.edu

brooke at iseaa.org


Buddhist Ways of Reading


Heim, Maria

Gummer, Natalie


mrheim at amherst.edu

gummern at beloit.edu


Concepts and Techniques of Prognostication


Guggenmos, Esther-Maria

Scheuermann, Rolf


rolf.scheuermann at fau.de

esther-maria.guggenmos at fau.de


Conventional Reality, Conventional Truth


McClintock, Sara


slmccli at emory.edu


Deeds of a Buddha


Tournier, Vincent

Luczanits, Christian

Sernesi, Marta


vt6 at soas.ac.uk

cl46 at soas.ac.uk

ms153 at soas.ac.uk


Dh?ra?? Literature and Textual Cultures


Davidson, Ronald M.


rdavidson at fairfield.edu


Discipline, Agency, Inquiry: Vinaya Reception in Women?s Monastic Communities Past and Present


Langenberg, Amy Paris


langenap at eckerd.edu


Does Candrak?rti Offer Any Epistemology (pram??a)?


Westerhoff, Jan

Thakchoe, Sonam


jan.westerhoff at theology.ox.ac.uk

sonam.thakchoe at utas.edu.au


Early Buddhist Manuscripts from Gandh?ra: New Discoveries and Research


Baums, Stefan

Strauch, Ingo


baums at lmu.de

ingo.strauch at unil.ch


Images and Practices of Buddhist Kingship across Asia


Berkwitz, Stephen

Dotson, Brandon


sberkwitz at missouristate.edu

dotson.brandon at gmail.com


Insights into Gandh?ran Buddhist Narratives through Art and Texts


Neelis, Jason


jneelis at wlu.ca


Literatures of Contemplation


Quintman, Andrew

Schaeffer, Kurtis


andrew.quintman at yale.edu

ks6bb at virginia.edu


Monastic Espionage in East Asia: Medieval Period


Chen, Jinhua


jinhuachen2013 at gmail.com


Monastic Espionage in East Asia in the Age of Isolationism, 14th to 19th Century


Bingenheimer, Marcus


m.bingenheimer at gmail.com


Monastic Espionage in East Asia: Modern Period


Brose, Benjamin


bbrose at umich.edu


New Approaches to W?nhyo and His Thought ? A Panel in Commemoration of the  1400th Anniversary of His Birth


Cho, Eun-su

Buswell, Robert


cho.eunsu at gmail.com

buswell at humnet.ucla.edu


New Research on Newar Buddhism


B?hnemann, Gudrun


gbuhnema at wisc.edu


New Trajectories in the Study of Buddhism and Law


Lammerts, D. Christian

Schonthal, Ben


dcl96 at rci.rutgers.edu

ben.schonthal at otago.ac.nz


Recent Approaches in Vinaya Studies


Borgland, Jens W.


jwborgland at gmail.com


Recent Research on the D?rgh?gama


Melzer, Gudrun

Choi, Jinkyoung


g.melzer at lmu.de

precioussunshine at gmail.com


Reconstructing the History of Late Indian Buddhism (Part III)

Relationship between Tantric and Non-tantric Doctrines


Kyuma, Taiken


kyuma at human.mie-u.ac.jp


Ritual, Doctrine, and Monasticism: Buddhist Practices in Dunhuang


Liu, Cuilan

Chen, Huaiyu


cuilanliu at post.harvard.edu

huaiyu.chen at asu.edu


Stories Behind the Story: Revisiting the Buddha?s Hagiography


Sasson, Vanessa


v.sasson at marianopolis.edu


The Avad?na?ataka: The Uses of Narrative


Appleton, Naomi

Muldoon-Hules, Karen


naomi.appleton at ed.ac.uk

kmuldoon at unex.ucla.edu


The Buddha?s Footprint in Asian Cultures


Handlin, Lilian


lilioscar at aol.com


The Manuscript Tradition of the P?li Texts in South and Southeast Asia


Yamanaka, Yukio


yukio916 at icloud.com


The Roles of Iconic Imagery in South Asian Buddhist Architectural Contexts: Reconstructions and New Perspectives


Morrissey, Nicolas


nmorriss at uga.edu


Transmission and Transformation of Buddhist Logic and Epistemology in East Asia (I): Around Dign?ga?s Logic and Fallacies of Debate


Ono, Mitoi

Inami, Masahiro


ono at logos.tsukuba.ac.jp


Transmission and Transformation of Buddhist Logic and Epistemology in East Asia (II): Around Yog?c?ra and Madhyamaka Texts in Chinese Translations


Moriyama, Shinya

Moro, Shigeki


smoriyam at shinshu-u.ac.jp


Transparent, Translucent, or Opaque: Chinese Translations of Indic Texts as Windows onto Indian Buddhism


Witkowski, Nicholas


nwitkows at alumni.stanford.edu


Travel, Transmission, and Affiliation: Lineage in the Buddhist Crossroads of Inner Asia


King, Matthew W.


matthew.king at ucr.edu


Vinaya Commentaries


Clarke, Shayne


clarsha at mcmaster.ca


What Makes a Monastery a Great Monastery? Textual, Art Historical, and Archaeological Evidence from India to [the Borders of] China


Forte, Erika


erika.forte at univie.ac.at


Yog?c?ra Across Asia: India, Tibet, and East Asia


Yao, Zhihua

Bayer, Achim


zyao at cuhk.edu.hk

bayer_achim at yahoo.com


Zones of Contact: Facets of Buddhist Interactions in Eastern Central Asia During the 9th-14th Centuries


Meinert, Carmen


carmen.meinert at rub.de




Conference Schedule

Date


Morning


Afternoon


Evening


Sunday, August 20, 2017


Registration


Registration


Opening Reception


Monday, August 21, 2017


Panels and Sections


Panels and Sections


Evening Presentations


Tuesday, August 22, 2017


Panels and Sections


Panels and Sections


Evening Presentations


Wednesday, August 23, 2017


Panels and Sections


Panels and Sections


Evening Presentations


Thursday, August 24, 2017


Panels and Sections


Excursions




Friday, August 25, 2017


Panels and Sections


Panels and Sections


Closing Reception



Registration Fee


To assist the organizers in hosting the event, we have set the Congress fee at $330 CAD. This fee includes attendance, coffee, tea and hot lunch during the academic programming, meals at both the Opening and Closing Receptions, as well as printing costs for paper programs. Not included in this fee are meals outside of the academic program and Opening and Closing Receptions, such as breakfasts and dinners, as well as travel, accommodation, excursions, and special events.


Those registering before March 31st, 2017 will enjoy a discounted fee of $300 CAD, while graduate students are entitled to a rate of $250 CAD with confirmation of enrollment status. Students from countries with low currency exchange rates when compared to the Canadian Dollar may request a fee reduction by writing to me directly at the address provided below. Decisions on fee reduction will be made on a case-by-case basis, and I regret that only a limited number of such reductions can be granted.


Fee payment will be made online through our website, where, as mentioned above, you will be expected to provide proof of payment of your IABS membership fee for 2017. Please visit the website on October 1st, 2016 to complete your online Congress registration.


Posters and Exhibits


In addition to panels and paper sections, we welcome the submission of project presentations from scholars and organizations who wish to display their work to the Congress at large. We regret that only a limited number of presentations can be selected. Please write to me directly to inquire about presenting your project at the XVIIIth IABS Congress.


Exhibitors providing professional services or products such as books are also invited to contact me directly to inquire about renting space during the Congress proceedings.


Visa Requirements


As the Congress will attract scholars and students from all over the world, it is not possible for the organising team to advise or assist with securing visas to Canada, since the process varies widely depending on the country of origin of each attendee. Potential attendees are encouraged to consult the Canadian Embassy or Consulate in their home country or country of residence as early as possible. Travel agencies are also possible sources of information on the visa process. We can, however, provide letters indicating that an individual is in fact registered to attend or present at the Congress. Please write to me directly if you wish to request such a letter.


Airline


I wish to gently remind everyone that Congress attendees are responsible for covering all travel to and from Toronto. Currently we are trying to secure a discounted rate for travel by air, and updated information will appear on the website once registration begins, October 1st, 2016. Please check the website after this date for update travel information.


Accommodation

Congress participants are responsible to secure their own accommodation and pay all attendant costs. Below is a list of accommodations near the University of Toronto, St. George Campus, some of which have granted discounted rates to Congress attendees. When booking, please inform them of your attendance at the XVIIIth Congress of the International Association of Buddhist Studies, 2017. A range of options has been provided to suit the different needs of our Congress attendees. Please be advised that the University is located in downtown Toronto, and August is one of the busiest times of the year, so kindly book early if possible.



Budget


Single Occupancy


Double Occupancy


Admiral St. George: BB and Guesthouse

305 St. George St. / 416-921-1899


$50/Student

$95/1 Bedroom

$125/Big room




Annex Quest House

83 Spadina Road / 416-922-1934


$95/night

$545/week




Medium






Howard Johnson Hotel: Toronto-Yorkville

89 Avenue Road / 416-964-1220


$95/1 Double Bed

$143/King Bed


$109/2 Double Beds


Comfort Hotel Downtown

15 Charles St. E. / 416-924-1222


