From andrew.ollett at gmail.com  Mon Mar 23 23:47:11 2015
From: andrew.ollett at gmail.com (Andrew Ollett)
Date: Mon, 23 Mar 15 19:47:11 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Berlin summer programme on the Rgveda and its	commentaries
Message-ID: <CAANHO14=HpG87Pxt=pfUysXMiNNGSb-AhA2Cu2ATDMcaj3nYyQ@mail.gmail.com>

 I forward this message on behalf of colleague: note that Christopher
Minkowski and Joshua Katz will be teaching a class in this program on the
?gveda through "two kinds of philology" (European-style comparative
philology and the Indian tradition of commentary). Please forward to
interested students.


 CALL FOR APPLICATIONS

GLOBALIZED CLASSICS

HUMBOLDT-UNIVERSIT?T ZU BERLIN

KOSMOS SUMMER UNIVERSITY 2015

 We hereby invite doctoral students and early career scholars to apply for
a summer school on ?Globalized Classics?, held in Berlin, August/September
2015.

The summer university is devoted to the study of the Ancient World from
comparative and interdisciplinary points of view. It will examine the
impact of globalization and non-Western perspectives on the study of the
Graeco-Roman Classics. It will also reflect on the principles and the
history of classical scholarship, and compare these with non-Western
learned practices of dealing with canonical texts and artefacts.

The activities of the summer university will comprise two components, each
of which can be attended separately:

(i) a seminar ?Methodological Questions for Globalized Classics?, which
will meet for three hours each weekday, August 10?21, 2015;

(ii) the summer school ?Globalized Classics? proper, which will
convene from August 24 until September 2, 2015, with meetings from 10 am
until 6 pm each weekday. Students will take part in seminars on a topic of
their choice (for topics see programme below); these will be complemented
by plenary sessions with all students, which will be dedicated to
comparative studies of Western and non-Western Classics and scholarship.
The summer school will culminate in an academic conference on September
4?5, 2015.

The Summer University will be taught by teams of leading scholars from
universities across the world. For full details about the programme, please
visit the website:

http://globalizedclassics.antikezentrum.hu-berlin.de

*Eligibility and application procedure*

The summer university is intended for doctoral students and early career
scholars with competence in one of the areas included in the programme. The
number of places on the summer university is limited.

Applicants can apply either (i) for participation in the Seminar
?Methodological Questions for Globalized Classics?, or (ii) for
participation in a section of the Summer School
?Globalized Classics?, or (iii) for participation in both. It is important
that applicants to the Summer School specify the section in which they wish
to participate.

Successful applicants will automatically qualify to receive a stipend
toward their travel expenses and a part of their accommodation expenses.
Students from outside Europe may receive up to 1.300 Euros in stipend,
students from within Europe may receive up to 500 Euros. In addition, the
August Boeckh Centre will assist student participants in
finding accommodation.

Applications should include an academic curriculum vitae, a 500-word
description of the applicant?s research project and its relevance to the
programme of the summer school, and the name and contact details of an
academic reference.

Applications are due by April 1, 2015 and may be directed electronically to
kosmos.globalized.classics at hu-berlin.de

*Contact and further information*

For more detailed information about the summer university please see

http://globalizedclassics.antikezentrum.hu-berlin.de

or contact

Martin St?ckinger

Humboldt-Universit?t zu Berlin
August-Boeckh-Antikezentrum
Unter den Linden 6
10099 Berlin
Tel. +49 (30) 2093-70440
martin.stoeckinger at hu-berlin.de

*Organization*

This summer university is organized by the August Boeckh Centre for Ancient
Studies at the Humboldt-Universit?t zu Berlin. It is funded by the Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) through the University?s KOSMOS programme.

The Organizing Committee consists of:

Markus Asper
Professor of Greek and Director of the August Boeckh Centre,
Humboldt-Universit?t zu Berlin

Colin Guthrie King
Professor of Philosophy, Providence College; Honorary Fellow,
Humboldt-Universit?t zu Berlin

Martin St?ckinger
Academic Co-ordinator of the August Boeckh Centre, Humboldt-Universit?t zu
Berlin

Philip van der Eijk
Alexander von Humboldt Professor of Classics and History of Science,
Humboldt-Universit?t zu Berlin


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20150323/fbde4cae/attachment.htm>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: GlobalizedClassics_programme.pdf
Type: application/pdf
Size: 319556 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20150323/fbde4cae/attachment.pdf>

