From d.wujastyk at gmail.com  Tue Apr  7 13:10:42 2015
From: d.wujastyk at gmail.com (Dagmar Wujastyk)
Date: Tue, 07 Apr 15 15:10:42 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Postdoctoral research position at Vienna university
Message-ID: <CAEhxeU2CuiH=yGXew+anRSb+adHms4TJ=-ZwUfTK4ccsPzSu_g@mail.gmail.com>

Dear colleagues,

May I bring your attention to a job offer for the position of postdoctoral
research assistant at the University of Vienna (see the job description
below)? Please feel free to disseminate this.

Many thanks, and kind regards,

Dagmar Wujastyk




We are offering a full-time position (2yrs+3yrs) as postdoctoral research
assistant to contribute to the ERC Starting Grant project ?Medicine,
Immortality, Moksha: Entangled Histories of Yoga, Ayurveda and Alchemy in
South Asia.? The project is located at the department for South Asian,
Tibetan and Buddhist Studies of the University of Vienna. The position is
to be filled from 1st July 2015 or at the earliest possible time until 30th
June 2017, with the possibility of a further three years extension. The
gross salary for the full time position will be in the range ? 49.644,00 --
 ? 55.003,20 per annum.

Candidates must hold a PhD degree in Indology, South Asian studies or
related fields. Eligibility criteria include excellent knowledge of
Sanskrit and/or classical Tamil and interest in medieval yoga literature.
Experience in working with manuscripts, expertise in ha?hayoga literature,
Tamil (Siddha) medical literature, ayurvedic literature and rasa??stra
literature would be advantageous.

The successful candidate will work as part of a team of three postdoctoral
researchers in an ERC-funded project that will examine the histories of
yoga, ayurveda and rasa??stra from the tenth century to the present,
focussing on the disciplines' health, rejuvenation and longevity practices.
The goals of the project are to reveal the entanglements of these
historical traditions, and to trace the trajectories of their evolution as
components of today's global healthcare and personal development
industries. Please refer to the project?s website ayuryog.org for further
details on the project.

The successful candidate?s research will focus on the influence of ayurveda
and rasa??stra on ha?hayoga traditions and/or Siddha medicine between the
twelfth and the eighteenth centuries, translating and analysing
ha?hayoga/Siddha texts from that period.

Applications should include copies of degree certificates, curriculum
vitae, a one page motivation statement, and list of publications (if
applicable). Please email applications in the form of a single PDF to Dr.
Dagmar Wujastyk (d.wujastyk(at)gmail.com), quoting ?AYURYOG application? in
the subject line. The deadline for applications is the 1st of May 2015. For
further information on the project, please refer to the project website at
ayuryog.org <http://www.ayuryog.org>.


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20150407/3a1016b3/attachment.htm>

