From dipak.d2004 at gmail.com  Thu Jun 18 10:24:00 2015
From: dipak.d2004 at gmail.com (Dipak Bhattacharya)
Date: Thu, 18 Jun 15 15:54:00 +0530
Subject: [INDOLOGY] (no subject)
Message-ID: <CABEB9qJgheUfqPhc+-ZowY9z+yrCN2tRQVB6XBAK37LU1su6XA@mail.gmail.com>

indology at list.indology.info

18. 06.15

Dear Colleagues,

This not a discussion on the IVC and the Aryans and the invasion theory, I
just draw attention to a few bibliographical deficiencies that struck me.
If I am not mistaken ? that because of the vast amount of literature posted
here - I did not find any reference to or discussion on H.P.Francfort
in *Frontiers
of the Indus civilization* (1984:301-310), J-C. Gardin ?L?arch?ologie du
paysage bactrien? : pp,480-501, *Comptes rendus de l?academie des
inscriptions, *Paris :480-501, Bertille Lyonnet ?Decouverte de sites de
l??ge du bronze dans le N.E. de l?Afghanistan : leurs rapports avec la
civilisation de l?Indus? in *Annali dell ?Istituto Orientale di Napoli *Vol.37
1977: 19-35. These did not at all refer to the Aryans or any race theory
but announced startling discoveries on the IVC.

My personal view is that they may throw light on the RV description of
V?tra?s killing without reference to invasion.

?GARDIN 1980 speaks of the extensive irrigation system developed in the
very same region in the third millennium BC. The peculiarity of the system
originated in pebbles depositing in the riverbed of the Kokcha, a tributary
of the Oxus, and raising its water level. This necessitated the
construction of high-level canals in the lowest slopes of the mountains
where they were cut out from the river. G ARDIN  naturally thinks that the
deposit of pebbles formed in the riverbed in a natural process. But that
could also be a deliberate act for maintaining a stable source of water
throughout the year. In that case the obstruction would reduce the
water-level of the Kokcha river and also of the Oxus. Now, the heroic feat
of Indra most remembered in the ?gveda is the destruction of the serpent
that obstructed the flow of water. Cf. RV 1.32.1-2 : ?I proclaim the heroic
feats of Indra, the first ones the wielder of the thunderbolt did. He
killed the serpent, then let out the water and broke the flanks of the
mountains. He killed the serpent lying in the mountain, Tva??? shaped the
resounding thunderbolt for him. Like cows lowing (for the calf), the
flowing waters at once went down towards the sea.? For those living
downstream the pebble-deposits in the Kokcha in the lower slopes of the
mountains would be undesired obstruction against the availability of water.
One may consider if the said adventures of Indra could have anything to do
with that. Could it be that Aryan adventures near the Oxus are alluded to
in the ?gveda? That comes close to what KOSAMBI(1956:75) had surmised on a
different ground.?

The above understanding is of an indirect clash and the destruction of a
civilizations?s base by migrants but not necessarily a purposeful invasion.
It appeared to me that the F.R.Allchin and F.B.J. Kuiper had somewhat
inclined to these ideas.  But I might be wrong. The citation is from a 2004
paper by me.

I should add that the post-2004 writings made me rethink on a few points
but that did not result in any new publication. Though Gardin and the other
authors spoke of IVC connection on the basis of similar ceramic industries
convincing evidence of trade/water-resource connection is required. The
affairs in Afghanistan destroyed many possibilities. And since I am no
authority on the subject there is no insistence of any kind that my views
should have great worth. I request forgiveness if the points have already
been considered in the forum.

Best wishes

Dipak Bhattacharya


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20150618/ab5c90c1/attachment.htm>

