From christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca  Thu Oct 22 10:41:18 2015
From: christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca (Christoph Emmrich)
Date: Thu, 22 Oct 15 10:41:18 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Anthropology and History of Religion in South Asia position at UErfurt
Message-ID: <A929715192348C4380B851AA5A08ACBA16B5EE05@arborexmbx5.UTORARBOR.UTORAD.Utoronto.ca>

Dear Colleagues,

With apologies for cross-listing, please see the recent job posting below.

Warm regards,
Christoph Emmrich

----

The Max-Weber-Center for Advanced Cultural and Social Studies (Max-Weber-Kolleg f?r kultur- und sozialwissenschaftliche Studien) at the University of Erfurt invites applications for the following position:

Junior Professorship (W1)
in Anthropology and History of Religion in South Asia
(tenure track to W2)

The Junior Professorship is part of the Research Group ?Religious Individualization in Historical Perspective?, which is funded by the German Research Council (DFG).

Initially limited to four years, the professorship may be converted into a permanent position (W 2) subject to a positive tenure review and the provisions of the Career Track scheme of the University of Erfurt. The successful candidate will represent the subject of Anthropology and Religion in South Asia in research and teaching at the Max-Weber-Center. The appointee will teach in the relevant degree programmes of the University of Erfurt, in particular in the PhD programme of the Max-Weber-Kolleg.

For the duration of the W1-Position the appointee will be located at the Max-Weber-Kolleg. The incumbent will play an active part in the Research Group ?Religious Individualization in Historical Perspective? and will contribute in particular to the comparative approach of the Research Group. He or she is expected to engage in interdisciplinary collaboration with the other members of the Max-Weber-Kolleg. In addition the incumbent will contribute to cooperative and consortium projects with partners outside the Kolleg, e.g. with the project ?Metamorphoses of the Political?, which has Indian and German partner institutions.

In addition, the incumbent is expected to contribute to the development of new externally funded research projects at the University of Erfurt.

Requirements

The applicant must provide evidence of complying with the general regulations of public service law and of fulfilling the prerequisites for recruitment (Einstellungsvoraussetzungen) in ? 82 of the Th?ringer Hochschulgesetz (Th?rHG).

The candidate must have dealt with historical and contemporary forms of religiosity on the Indian subcontinent in research and teaching. The Max-Weber-Kolleg and the University of Erfurt expect that the candidate focuses especially on traditions and practices in the areas of Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism or Jainism as well as on relationships among these traditions and of these traditions with forms of Islamic and Christian religiosity. The candidate must show active appreciation of social science approaches and readiness for interdisciplinary cooperation. In addition to collaboration within the Research Group ?Religious Individualisation? the candidate is supposed to contribute to the India focus of the Max-Weber-Kolleg and the development of new cooperative research projects.

Core requirements are:


?       a PhD, conferred within the last 5 years, in one of the following disciplines: Religious Studies, (Cultural/Social) Anthropology, Sociology of Religion, Indology, or in an equivalent discipline

?       knowledge of at least one Indian language (other than English) at level B2

?       publication of at least one monograph (which may be the PhD thesis) or articles of corresponding significance in peer-reviewed journals and similar contributions



Additionally desirable competences include


?       experience as team leader

?       in-depth knowledge of a South Asian region gained through extended sojourns

?       knowledge of German

The University of Erfurt expects a strong teaching commitment and attaches particular importance to personal support of students. The University expects contributions to its interdisciplinary teaching programme, including the Studium Fundamentale, with courses partially held in English.The applicant must be able to teach in German at the latest after three years. All members of the academic faculty must contribute to the academic administration.

Remarks

The procedures and requirements for a tenure-track appointment to a W2-Professorship are laid down in the Berufungsordnung of the University of Erfurt. For the full length of the Junior Professorship (6 years) employment is time-limited employment is in accordance with ? 82 Abs. 6 Th?rHG.

The Max-Weber-Kolleg and the University of Erfurt promote gender equality. Applications from women candidates are therefore especially welcome. Severely handicapped persons have priority of employment in case of equal suitability, competence and qualification.

The University of Erfurt expects the successful candidate to take up residence in Erfurt or in its vicinity.


Application procedure

Complete applications consist of:

?      CV

?      list of publications

?      list of courses taught

?      a report on research projects undertaken so far as well as on external funding received

?      an outline of a research project to be pursued

?      list of academic presentations

?      academic certificates, esp. the PhD certificat

Applications, quoting the reference number, should be received by 30 November 2015. They may be submitted via e-mail to:
 <mailto:dekanat.mwk at uni-erfurt.de> dekanat.mwk at uni-erfurt.de<mailto:dekanat.mwk at uni-erfurt.de>
or by mail to:
Universit?t Erfurt ? Direktorat des Max-Weber-Kollegs ? ETC.
Contact persons are

?      Prof. Dr. J?rg R?pke, Max-Weber-Kolleg (joerg.ruepke at uni-erfurt.de<mailto:joerg.ruepke at uni-erfurt.de>)

?      Prof. Dr. Martin Fuchs, Max-Weber-Kolleg (martin.fuchs at uni-erfurt.de<mailto:martin.fuchs at uni-erfurt.de>)

Further information regarding the Max-Weber-Kolleg and the Research Group ?Religious Individualization in Historical Perspective? can be found at
<https://www.uni-erfurt.de/max-weber-kolleg>https://www.uni-erfurt.de/max-weber-kolleg
Please send the application papers in one pdf-file (max. 5 MB) together with the PhD thesis and maximally 4 other publications, also as pdf. The University of Erfurt will not pay application expenses.

----

Christoph Emmrich
Associate Professor, Buddhist Studies
Chair, Numata Program UofT/McMaster
University of Toronto


Currently: Villa Devotion

8, rue Labourdonnais

Pondicherry 605001, India

+91-8056695992 (c)

http://www.religion.utoronto.ca/people/faculty/christoph-emmrich/
http://www.obwg-sshrc-uoft.ca

Department for the Study of Religion
University of Toronto, 170 St. George Street
Jackman Humanities Building, Room 303
Toronto, Ontario M5R 2M8, Canada
+416.978.6463 (o), +416.978.1610 (f)

christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca<https://webmail.utoronto.ca/imp/message.php?index=6723##>




-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20151022/a5a76331/attachment.htm>

