From oguibenine at gmail.com  Thu Feb  2 18:54:55 2017
From: oguibenine at gmail.com (Boris Oguibenine)
Date: Thu, 02 Feb 17 13:54:55 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] new publication
Message-ID: <CANmMsHECLOd++VotkwP6o_R-DHHJYjRzi+ihh4T70oy=2ANbHQ@mail.gmail.com>

Dear Colleagues,

I would like to announce the publication of this book appeared just at the
end of 2016:

Boris Oguib?nine*. A Descriptive Grammar of Buddhist Sanskrit. The language
of the Textual Tradition of the Mah?s??ghika-Lokottorav?dins. General
Introduction. Sound Patterns. Sandhi Patterns, *484 pp., 2016.

Journal of Indo-European Studies Monograph 64, Institute for the Study of
Man,  Washington DC.



ISBN Hardback: 978-0-9983669-0-6

ISBN Paperback: 978-0-9983669-1-3



 Summary



 This book is the first detailed description of the phonetics of Buddhist
Sanskrit as shown in the textual tradition of the Buddhist sect known as
Mah?s??ghika-Lokottorav?dins. The texts use the language which undoubtedly
bears the marks of Middle Indian influence,  mostly of P?li. However,  as
widely recognized,  this language is not identical with P?li or any other
Middle Indian dialect. F. Edgerton?s pioneer grammar of this language (New
Haven: Yale University Press,  1953),  which he called ?Buddhist Hybrid
Sanskrit? allows only a limited space to its phonetics. The present book
contains an analysis of the phonetic evidence of all available texts of the
Mah?s??ghika-Lokottorav?dins. Several of them have been published after
Edgerton?s demise,  and their data had necessarily to be incorporated in
our analysis.

          Special emphasis is made on the fact that this language does not
owe its shape to either Middle Indian dialect,  but is a language on its
own,  with its own peculiar structural constraints and features.

          Particularly,  to account for its mixed nature,  all occurrences
of sound and their sequences are thoroughly examined with special attention
to the alternations taking place within the texts and their layers,
 probably pointing to the language habits of the speakers of different
Middle Indian dialects,  which contributed to the production of the textual
tradition that stood in the midway between H?nay?na?s and Mah?y?na?s texts.

       The intricate problem of sandhi patterns is also given much
attention as it is generally believed that these patterns were subject to
no constraints whatsoever.

           This volume on the phonetics should be followed by further
volumes dedicated to morphological and syntactic patterns of this language

Boris OGUIBENINE
Professeur (?m?rite)
Universit?  de Strasbourg
14, rue Descartes
BP 80010
F-67084 Strasbourg
France


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170202/9ffeebef/attachment.htm>

