From lavanyavemsani at gmail.com  Mon Aug 28 00:42:02 2017
From: lavanyavemsani at gmail.com (Lavanya Vemsani)
Date: Sun, 27 Aug 17 20:42:02 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Call for Papers: American Journal of Indic Studies
Message-ID: <28DD9CBF-AF3E-40A2-B5B6-ADB22B6D52DF@gmail.com>

Dear Esteemed Colleagues and friends, 
Included here is the Call for Papers for the first issue of American Journal of Indic Studies. Please note the new deadline for paper submissions. 
Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions. 
Thank you. 
Lavanya 


Lavanya Vemsani 
Ph.D (History) Ph.D. (Religious Studies)
Professor, Dept. of Social Sciences
Shawnee State University 
Portsmouth OH 45662
Phone: 740-351-3233
Co-founder, American Academy of Indic Studies 
Editor-in-Chief 
American Journal of Indic Studies

Call for papers
American Journal of Indic Studies
ISSN 2573-1939
Submissions open for the Inaugural Issue Volume 1 No 1
 
American Journal of Indic Studies (AJIS) is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by the American Academy of Indic Studies (AAIS)(http://aaindicstudies.org/publication/)
 
AJIS invites academic papers on all aspects of Indic studies broadly defined for publication in Volume 1 Number 1 and its subsequent issues. AJIS publishes papers that call attention to the meanings and applications of Indic categories, which have typically been under-represented in the academic study of Indic civilization. AJIS invites papers that analyze specific theoretical and methodological issues within Indic studies across academic disciplines. AJIS also welcomes papers that place Indic categories and explanatory models in conversation with western theoretical and methodological models in order to deepen and expand scholarly knowledge of Indic civilization. Interactions and relationships of western and non-western studies on contemporary and classical Indic civilization are also considered for publication. 
 
Papers on all aspects of Indic Studies, and their interdisciplinary studies in all of the disciplines of Humanities, Social Sciences, Education, Public Affairs, and other Interdisciplinary areas including (but not limited to) Anthropology, Archaeology, Arts and Art History, DiasporaStudies, Ethical Thought, Ecological & Environmental Studies, Film Studies, Gender Studies, History & Culture, Human Geography, India-America relations, Indic Elements & Hindu-Buddhist relations in Asia, Languages& Linguistics, Media Studies, Philosophy, Politics & Public Administration, Religious Studies, Social Work, and Sociology will be considered for publication.
 
American Journal of Indic Studies publishes original papers, reflection papers, theoretical & conceptual frameworks, analytical & empirical research, applied research & field notes, and book & film reviews.
 
Please send your latest books for review to our review editor Dr. Sudershan Pasupuleti at sudershan.pasupuleti at utrgv.edu
 
Date of Publishing: AJIS is inviting papers for Vol. 1 No. 1 scheduled to be published in Spring 2018.
Submission deadline: December 28, 2017.
 
Contributions for subsequent volumes will be accepted on a rolling basis and considered on a first-come-first-serve basis for the next available upcoming volume. Please include brief bio with your submission. Send your manuscript and questions to Dr. Lavanya Vemsani at: editor at AAIndicStudies.org
 
Editorial Advisor:
Arvind Sharma
 
Executive Editor:
Pankaj Jain
 
Editor-in-Chief:
Lavanya Vemsani
 
Editorial Ombudsman:
Jeffery D. Long
 
Assistant Editor:
Anjali Kanojia
 
Book Review Editor:
Sudershan Pasupuleti
 
Editorial Board:
Amarjiva Lochan
Antoinette DeNapoli
Antonio de Nicolas
Anup Kumar
Bharat Gupt
Brij Mohan
George Cardona
Harsha Dehejia
Jim G. Shaffer
Madhu Khanna
Makarand Paranjape
Mandakranta Bose
Peter Scharf
Radhakrishnan Pillai
Rajakumari Shankar
Rajeshwari Pandharipande
Rama Rao Pappu
Rana P. B. Singh
Ravindra D. Prasad
Rayson K. Alex
Robert Thurman
Sangeetha Menon
Stephen Phillips
Varadaraja Raman


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170827/8c00a1f3/attachment.htm>

