From jpeterson at isfas.uni-kiel.de  Fri Oct 27 13:05:38 2017
From: jpeterson at isfas.uni-kiel.de (John Peterson)
Date: Fri, 27 Oct 17 15:05:38 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] PhD position: Linguistic prehistory of eastern-central South Asia (and beyond) - 2nd posting
Message-ID: <5181e3b4238a61582139b080483f675d@mail.uni-kiel.de>

The research project "TOWARDS A LINGUISTIC PREHISTORY OF EASTERN-CENTRAL
SOUTH ASIA (AND BEYOND)" at the Christian-Albrechts-Universit?t in Kiel
in north Germany, funded by the German Research Council (DFG) (PE
872/5-1), is currently seeking to fill a PhD position (E 13 TV-L, 65%)
for a period of three years (36 months) to begin 1 January, 2018 or as
soon as possible thereafter. 

The primary goal of the project is to determine prehistoric language
contacts and spreads in South Asia, especially in eastern-central South
Asia, by examining distributional patterns and checking these for
potential areal and genealogical trends, constantly viewing this
information against the backdrop of what is known of the history of this
region and South Asia in general and taking the oral traditions and
historicizing myths of the individual ethnicities into consideration,
where possible. To achieve this goal, the project team will compile a
fine-grained morphosyntactic and phonological database on the languages
of sub-Himalayan South Asia, including Austro-Asiatic, Dravidian,
Indo-Aryan and Iranian languages as well as language isolates,
concentrating on eastern-central India, based on data from both
published studies and original field work, thereby providing us with
answers to many questions regarding the linguistic prehistory of this
part of the South Asian subcontinent (and beyond). 

 Duties include the following: 

 	* Data collection from published resources on the languages of
sub-Himalayan South Asia (Austro-Asiatic, Indo-Aryan, Iranian, Dravidian
and language isolates)
 	* surveying typological work on select linguistic topics
 	* the development of questionnaires, as needed, for use in fieldwork
 	* extensive field work in India - ca. 11 months within the first two
years of the project
 	* analysis of the raw data from fieldwork
 	* assisting the postdoctoral researcher with data mining and
explaining the patterns identified in the data
 	* assisting the postdoctoral researcher with the organization of an
international workshop at the Christian-Albrechts-Universit?t in Kiel in
connection with the project
 	* participation at various international linguistic workshops and
conferences to present the project's results

The successful candidate will hold an MA in General Linguistics (or in a
closely related field) with a background in language typology, language
description and/or language documentation (preferably all three).
Candidates with an MA in South Asian Studies / Indology will also be
considered, provided that they have a similarly strong background in
these areas. The ability to work well in a team is essential, as is the
willingness to familiarize oneself with the basic tenets of statistical
analysis, as required. 

Field work experience as well as familiarity with at least one modern
South Asian language, preferably Hindi, are a definite asset, but are
not a prerequisite for this position. If chosen, a candidate who is not
familiar with Hindi will be expected to obtain a basic knowledge of
spoken and written Hindi within the first 9 months of the project. 

The holder of this position will also have the opportunity to complete
his/her PhD during this time.  

Kiel University aims at increasing the number of women in research and
academic teaching and strongly encourages applications of accordingly
qualified women. Women will be preferred, provided equal qualifications
and scientific performance. 

The CAU supports the employment of severely disabled persons. Therefore,
severely disabled persons will be preferred, provided equal
qualifications and scientific performance. 

Applications by people with a migration background are particularly
welcomed. 

Please send applications containing a cover letter and a CV by 17
November, 2017, to the following email address:
jpeterson at isfas.uni-kiel.de

-- 
John Peterson
Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft (ISFAS)
Christian-Albrechts-Universit?t zu Kiel
Olshausenstra?e 40
D-24098 Kiel
Germany

Tel.: (+49) (0)431-880 2414
Fax: (+49) (0)431-880 7405

Homepage:
http://www.isfas.uni-kiel.de/de/linguistik/mitarbeitende/john-peterson

"There's no present like the time."


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20171027/5379bc00/attachment.htm>

