[INDOLOGY] FYI: Spoken Sanskrit blog entry plus discussion at "Language Log"
Dear Jean-Luc,
After several years of wondering I finally found my way to the village of
Jhiri, Madhya Pradesh. Jhiri is one of the better known 'Sanskrit
villages'. It was during the deadly heatwave last April/May that I found
myself in the village with no running water or electricity sleeping on the
oven-like roof and bathing amongst the buffaloes. In this village I
recorded some footage and made a short film about non-??stric spoken
Sanskrit and code-switching. Here
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cy6lVABgjmg> is the link. I intend to make
more films about Jhiri. Stay tuned.
I was inspired by this rather ambiguous media report that says
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lHLIy-WHDew>  ?almost all the people
always converse in Sanskrit?. However, I can tell you that out of ~600
villagers I found only about 15-20 people who could hold a conversation in
Sanskrit in various domains. Many more were able to recite a memorised
Sanskrit sentence / salutation but were unable to hold a conversation
without prompting and/or translation. Regardless, this community of
predominantly Sondhiya Rajputs has intentions of transitioning to Sanskrit.
However, there are very interesting reasons as to why this project is
essentially failing/has failed.
The current superordinate language is Umawadi Malvi. Hindi is also spoken.
There are no first language speakers of Sanskrit in this village. We can
consider that Sanskrit in Jhiri is in a moribund state as there has been no
teaching of Sanskrit by the Samskrita Bharati teachers who were sent to the
village 10 years ago from the Bhopal office but they have not taught in the
past 5 years, even though they continue to live in the village.
The future of this language nest is in doubt. The community's elders are
slightly bemused at why the media has misrepresented them as a homogenous
group of fluent speakers. They are the first to admit this is not *yet* the
case. Still there was one particular individual who emphatically repeated
on several occasions that '*asm?ka? gr?me sarve jan?? sa?sk?ta? vadanti*'.
This attitude in itself is fascinating.
Of the many things that fascinate me about spoken Sanskrit, one thing I am
interested in concerns how Sanskrit is spoken from the perspective of 2nd
language acquisition. I am especially interested in how it mixes with the
substrate (1st/2nd) languages to create what we can consider a creoloid
