[INDOLOGY] Call for Papers: International Journal of Hindu and	Dharma Studies
*Call for papers*
*International Journal of Dharma and Hindu Studies*
*Submissions open for Volume 1 Number 3? April 2016*
International Journal of Dharma and Hindu Studies (IJDHS) is a Quarterly
online, peer-reviewed and open-access journal published by the Hindu
University of America (HUA).
IJDHS invites academic papers on Dharma and Hindu religions and their
academic study and reception in the west for publication in Volume 1 Number
3. Interactions and relationship of western religions and Dharma traditions
are also considered for publication in this issue of the journal. Papers
on the subject of academic study of Hinduism and and India outside of India
as well as Hinduism and Dharma religions outside India will be considered
for publication.  Papers on Hinduism and Dharma religions (Buddhism,
Jainism and Sikhism) and their interdisciplinary studies concerning any of
the following disciplines of Anthropology, Sociology, Philosophy, History &
Culture, Human Geography, Language & Linguistics, Media Studies, Ethics,
Environmental Studies, Women Studies.
International Journal of Dharma and Hindu Studies publishes original
papers, reflection papers, theoretical & conceptual framework, analytical
and empirical research, applied research & field notes, and book reviews.
*Date of Publishing:* IJDHS is inviting papers for Vol. 1 No. 3 scheduled
to be published on April 15, 2016.
*Submission deadline: *February 16, 2016
Send your manuscript and questions to the editor Dr. Lavanya Vemsani at:
ijdhseditor at gmail.com or lavanyavemsani at gmail.com
With Warm Regards,
*Dr. Lavanya Vemsani*
Ph.D. Religious Studies (McMaster) & Ph.D. History (Univ. of Hyderabad)
Editor, International Journal of Dharma and Hindu Studies
Professor, Department of Social Sciences
Shawnee State University
E-mail: ijdhseditor at gmail.com or lavanyavemsani at gmail.com
*Dr. Lavanya Vemsani*  Ph.D. History (Univ. of Hyderabad) & Ph.D. Religious
Studies (McMaster Univ.)
Professor of History, Department of Social Sciences
Portsmouth OH 45662
V:7403513233 F:7403513153 E:lvemsani at shawnee.edu
