London MA Buddhist Art: History and Conservation at the Courtauld	Institute of Art (scholarships available)
Dear All,
I forward this from the H-Buddhism list as it may be of interest to some of you or some of your students.Apologies for any cross-posting.
With all good wishes,
Elizabeth De MichelisIndependent Scholar,http://modernyogaresearch.org/
19-21 May 2016 yoga?dar?ana,?yoga?s?dhana:?traditions, transmissions, transformations
An international?conference?at the JagiellonianUniversity, Krak?w, Poland
====================
PROGRAM> MA Buddhist Art: History and Conservation at the Courtauld Institute of Art, London (scholarships available)
by Giovanni VerriApplications are now open for the MA Buddhist Art: History and Conservation at the Courtauld Institute of Art, London, 2016-2017.The Courtauld is one of the leading centres in the world for education and research in history of art and conservation.This unique one-year MA is offered by The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation Centre for Buddhist Art and Conservation at The Courtauld. It combines teaching in the key tenets of Buddhism, the history of Buddhist art, and the making and conservation of Buddhist art. Taught by a wide range of specialists, it includes a field trip to conservation and management projects in Asia. Drawing on The Courtauld?s research and conservation work in Bhutan, China and India, this MA is specifically designed to equip students with:? knowledge of the central concepts and tenets of Buddhism, and their historical diffusion;? knowledge of the history of Buddhist art in its various religious, social, cultural and political contexts;? knowledge of the making of various types of Buddhist art;? knowledge of the approaches to the conservation of Buddhist art, and an understanding of the ethical, technical and administrative contexts;? on-site exposure to conservation and management projects on Buddhist art in Asia.?In this full-time, twelve-month course, teaching is mainly concentrated in three 11-week terms, but supervision of the dissertation continues during the summer months (June - September). Students undertake a dissertation which will consider an aspect of the original techniques, conservation, management, curating, history or use of Buddhist art.The MA provides a comprehensive grounding in the history of Buddhism, Buddhist art and its conservation both for those intending to pursue further specialist conservation education, and for others who wish to proceed into related fields such as art-historical research, curating, or site-management.About eight students are accepted and applicants from different academic and geographical backgrounds are encouraged to apply. Previous experience in the field is not required.TRAVEL AND ACCOMMODATION for field trips is provided by the Ho Centre for Buddhist Art and Conservation at the Courtauld.SCHOLARSHIPS: The Ho Centre offers a significant number of substantial scholarships for the MA, awarded on the basis of merit and need.Applications are due 17.00 GTM 16 February 2016.?For more information and to apply please visit??? <URL: http://courtauld.ac.uk/study/postgraduate/ma-buddhist-art-history-and-conservation>?The Courtauld Institute of ArtSomerset HouseStrandWC2R 0RN London UK
