From adheesh1 at gmail.com  Wed Jan 13 18:23:51 2016
From: adheesh1 at gmail.com (Adheesh Sathaye)
Date: Wed, 13 Jan 16 10:23:51 -0800
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Digital Textualities in South Asia: A Research Symposium	at UBC, March 4-5, 2016
Message-ID: <F29C2C2D-105C-4100-967A-E42FB4AB594F@gmail.com>

Dear Colleagues, 

It is my pleasure to announce our upcoming symposium at UBC on Digital Textualities in South Asia. Even if you are unable to make it to the actual event in Vancouver, we are hoping to have many sessions either live-streamed or otherwise accessible online, through our site at dtsa.ubcsanskrit.ca. Please don?t hesitate to be in touch with me for further details. 

All best wishes,
Adheesh
?
Adheesh Sathaye
Dept. of Asian Studies
University of British Columbia

????

Digital Textualities in South Asia: A Research Symposium at UBC
March 4-5, 2016, Asian Centre, 1871 West Mall, Vancouver BC V6T1Z2

How might new technologies help us preserve and make better sense of the vast but vulnerable textual cultures of the pre-digital age? The question is especially pertinent to the study of South Asia, which boasts some of the largest, oldest, and most diverse collections of premodern writings in the world, but which has also recently experienced breathtaking technological growth. This research symposium at UBC will bring together leading international scholars who are actively adopting and developing digital technologies for the study of South Asian textual cultures, in order to share insights, tools, and techniques, to propose broader research questions, and to chart future directions for collaborative inquiry.

Featured plenary speakers:

Peter Robinson (University of Saskatchewan)
?As We May Read: Audiences, Authors and Editors in the Digital Age? 
Friday, March 4, 6-8PM, Asian Centre Auditorium

John L. Bryant (Hofstra University)
?Translation Is Revision: Imagining a Digital Tool for Editing Translation as a Fluid Text? 
Saturday, March 5, 2-4PM, Asian Centre Auditorium

Symposium participants:

Dominik Wujastyk (Alberta), Philipp Maas (Vienna), Manan Ahmed (Columbia), Sean Pue (Michigan State), Stefan Baums (LM?, Munich), Andrew Ollett (Harvard), Wendy Phillips (UNAM, Mexico City), Adheesh Sathaye and Tim Bellefleur (UBC)

For further information, schedule, and resources, please see dtsa.ubcsanskrit.ca.

All sessions are free and open to the general public.

Made possible through the generous support of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, the UBC Faculty of Arts, the Departments of Asian Studies and English at UBC, the Museum of Anthropology, and the SFU/UBC Digital Humanities Salon.

????







