[INDOLOGY] Job Announcement: Tenure track position,	SE Asian or North American religions,	Florida International University
Dear Indology-jana,
The Department of Religious Studies is conducting a search for a tenure track assistant professor specializing in Southeast Asian or North American traditions. I would also encourage a specialist in Pali literature to apply. Here is the announcement:
The Department of Religious Studies at Florida International University seeks to appoint a tenure-track assistant professor with a specialization in one of the religious traditions of either North America or Southeast Asia (tradition open and methodology open), preferably with expertise in the interaction of religions in the area. Relevant languages and fieldwork required. Ph.D. required. The successful candidate should have an active research agenda and be able to teach both introductory and advanced courses. The department, with thirteen full time members, offers B.A. and M.A. degrees and is located within FIU?s Steven J. Green School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA).
Qualified candidates are encouraged to apply to Job Opening ID (510983) at facultycareers.fiu.edu <https://facultycareers.fiu.edu/> and attach a cover letter, curriculum vitae, transcripts, at least three letters of recommendation, and course syllabi if available as either one .pdf file or as individual attachments. Candidates will be requested to provide names and contact information for their three references who may be contacted by the search committee. To receive full consideration, applications and required materials should be received by March 4, 2016. Review will continue until position is filled.
FIU is a member of the State University System of Florida and an Equal Opportunity, Equal Access Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
For more information about FIU, visit http://www.fiu.edu/ <http://www.fiu.edu/>
With apologies for cross posting,
Steve
Steven M. Vose
Bhagwan Mahavir Assistant Professor of Jain Studies
Director, Jain Studies Program
Department of Religious Studies
Florida International University
11200 SW 8th St., DM 359-A
Miami, FL 33199
