[INDOLOGY] Against the petition against Prof. Pollock
Thank you, Dominik, for bringing this to everyone's attention.  As you
correctly point out, such misunderstandings, whether willful or sincere,
have long-lasting consequences for the relationships between scholars
working on Indic material and for the potential to collaborate and move
scholarship forward.
Unfortunately, the effort to deliberately misread Pollock's and other's
statements is appearing in several places these days, including the
right-wing #Swarajya blog
<http://swarajyamag.com/culture/american-orientalism-as-the-new-macaulayism-and-what-we-need-to-do-about-it>
in which R. Jagannathan, quoting Malhotra and without actually having read
Pollock, suggests that Pollock is part of a Christian evangelical movement.
As ludicrous as the suggestion sounds to those of us who have read Pollock
(or worked directly with him), to those unfamiliar with Pollock's work it
might seem plausible.
As others have stated more eloquently than I can, this is indeed part of a
larger attack on scholarship being pursued by academics in India and abroad
who are seen as threats to a narrowly-conceived Hindutva ideological
program.  As R. Jagannathan demonstrates, the targets of attacks like those
of Malhotra and Ramasubramanian are not just 'foreign' scholars like
Pollock, but also Indian scholars like D.D. Kosambi who, despite making
huge contributions to the field, occupy ideological positions that the
Hindutva right finds unacceptable.  Thus what a non-Indian like Pollock
writes is 'colonialism', and what an Indian like Kosambi writes is
'sedition'.
On that note, scholars outside of India, both Indian and non-Indian, who
have signed positions in support of academic freedom in JNU and across
India have been receiving emails from organizations purporting to represent
Indian nationalist and diasporic interests warning them that signing such
positions could endanger the scholar's ability to do research in India in
the future.  Thus the joint nature of the attacks on 'foreign' and
'indigenous' scholars becomes clear.
If any joint effort is to be made to help clear up the confusion and
maintain good working relationships between Indian and non-Indian scholars,
then I would be happy to contribute.  As a former student and teacher at
JNU (and simply as an academic), I have been heartened to see the
tremendous outpouring of support by scholars around the world for the right
to free speech and debate there (and across India).
Best,
Tyler Williams
Assistant Professor
University of Chicago
On Sat, Feb 27, 2016 at 9:52 AM, Dominik Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com>
wrote:
