[INDOLOGY] [mullaikramas@gmail.com: Fwd: Against the petition against Prof. Pollock]
The below is forwarded to the list at the request of
Professors Ramasubramanian, Srinivas and Wujastyk.
Re: Against the petition against Prof. Pollock
Dear Prof. Wujastyk,
Thank you for your mail concerning the petition calling for a
reconstitution of the editorial board of the Murty Classical Library of
India. I am grateful to you for your kind words of appreciation on the work
of our group on the Indian tradition of Mathematics and Astronomy.
At the outset let me clarify, as I have done elsewhere too, that I was not
the prime mover behind this petition though I fully subscribe to it as a
signatory. It was by error that the petition was uploaded in my name at
change.org, an error which has been corrected subsequently.
I also appreciate your kind gesture to enclose the mail that you had sent
to the Indology Discussion Forum in response to some of the issues raised
in the petition. I just arrived in New Zealand as a visiting  Erskine
Fellow in the Department of Mathematics, University of Canterbury,  and it
took sometime for me to settle here. I also had to give a couple of
lectures, and hence the delay in responding to your posting in the Indology
Forum.
The following response is prepared by me in consultation with my colleague
Prof. M .D. Srinivas (cc-ed). We would greatly appreciate, if you could
post this response in the Indology Discussion Forum.
Thanks much, and
Best regards,
-ram.
Response to Prof. Wujastyk's posting in Indology Discussion Forum
We are surprised that Prof. Wujastyk's response to our petition is totally
silent on the main issue raised in the petition, which is that Prof.
Pollock has been a prominent signatory of two statements which have
strongly condemned the actions of the authorities of the Jawaharlal Nehru
University (JNU) and the Government of India in taking constitutionally
mandated legal actions against the anti-national slogans raised by an
unauthorized assembly of protesters at the JNU on the 9th of February 2016.
While castigating the actions of the democratically elected Government of
India as an ?authoritative menace?, these statements do not condemn the
protesters who called for the dismemberment of India and abused the Supreme
Court of India for ?judical killing?. Clearly Prof. Pollock and others who
were signatories to these statements have no respect for the unity and
integrity of India which has been won after a long struggle of the Indian
people against colonial rule. We are at a total loss as to how Prof.
Wujastyk could miss this central issue which was the `"main context" of
this petition calling upon the Murty Classical Library not to be mentored
by academics who have an ideological and political bias that does not allow
them even to respect the unity and integrity of India.
In the following, we shall only briefly respond to Prof. Wujastyk's point
that the petition has misconstrued the views of Prof. Pollock on ?What
South Asian Knowledge is Good For?.
http://www.columbia.edu/cu/mesaas/faculty/directory/pollock_pub/What%20is%20South%20Asian%20Knowledge%20Good%20for.pdf
He has referred to the following passage cited in the earlier version of
the petition from the 2012 Heidelberg lecture of Prof. Pollock:
"Are there any decision makers, as they refer to themselves, at
universities and foundations who would not agree that, in the cognitive
sweepstakes of human history, Western knowledge has won and South Asian
knowledge has lost?  ...That, accordingly, the South Asian knowledge South
Asians themselves have produced can no longer be held to have any
significant consequences for the future of the human species??
Prof. Wujastyk would like us to believe that, Prof. Pollock is only
presenting the above statement as a ????????? (purvapaksha). Sorry, if it
were so, all the theses presented in ????????? have to be completely
refuted before presenting the ?????????. Prof. Pollock  has only begun with
what he believes is a "statement of fact" that the leaders of Western
academia are unanimous in their conviction that ?Western knowledge has won
and South Asian knowledge has lost? and that South Asian knowledge "has no
significant consequences for the future of the human species".
If this were to be a ????????? in Pollock's paper, the rest of the paper
would have been devoted to the ????? (systematic refutation), of this
????????? in its entirety. Here, we do not even see Prof. Pollock
expressing his deep shock or strong condemnation that such a Western
supremacist view is prevalent in the exalted circles of Western academia.
It is true that Prof. Pollock does concede (these are the examples that
Prof. Wujastyk also cites) that there are some South Asian ?forms of
knowledge that may be thought of to possess a truth value for the
contemporary world (the nature and nomenclature of nominal compounding or
aesthetic response) or at least a truth value for some people in the
contemporary world (the benefits of yogic asanas and pranayama)?.  However
it is Prof. Pollock's considered view that the ?greater part of South Asian
achievements and understandings? have ?no claim whatever ... to any
universal truth value in themselves, and precisely because they pertain to
what are specifically South Asian modes of making sense of the world.?
Prof. Pollock is indeed very forthright in expressing his opinion that he
does not believe that ?South Asian contribution is the most important ever
made to world knowledge? and that ?What the region does provide is a record
of achievements of human consciousness? which ?allows us to frame a strong
hypotheses about the nature of that consciousness and the conditions of its
transformation?. These need to be studied   ?*in and of themselves*? and
not because they ?enable us to live intelligently in the world."
Clearly, Prof. Pollock sees little role for ?Indian knowledge? *qua*
?knowledge? in the contemporary world or for the future of human species.
Its relevance is mainly as a historical expression of human consciousness
which could help ?us? (namely, the Western academia) to learn something
about the nature of that consciousness. After arguing for such a
thesis (?????????),
it is indeed ironical that Prof. Pollock makes a claim in the end of his
talk that "our understanding of 'usefulness' and 'truth' [of South Asian
knowledge] has grown substantially in the time since Marx and Weber".
It was this thesis that was summarised in the petition by the statement
that Prof. Pollock holds the view that ?the shastras generated in India
serve no contemporary purpose except for the study of how Indians express
themselves.? It is indeed a fairly accurate summary of the thesis presented
by Prof. Pollock in the Heidelberg lecture.
As regards Prof. Pollock?s 1985 paper, we would also not go into details,
except for drawing attention to the following pronouncement in the abstract
of the paper:
?The understanding of the relationship of Sastra (?theory?) to Prayoga
(?practical activity?) in Sanskritic culture ...Theory is held always and
necessarily to precede and govern practice; there is no dialectical
interaction between them. ?
Any scholar who has studied the standard texts of Indian sciences such as
Jyotisha or Ayurveda would not fail to see how these texts advise the
practitioner of their sciences to be acutely aware of the limitations of
the theories expounded in the sastras which are only thought of as means
(???? ). The Jyotisha texts emphasize the need for continuous examination
(??????? ) of the procedures taught through observations. The Ayurvedic
texts, as Prof. Wujastyk is indeed well aware, go to the extent of
declaring that ?the entire world is a teacher of the intelligent? and that
the ?Sastra is a light which serves to  illuminate. It is ones own
intellect that perceives the correct course of action.? In his monumental
work Narayaniyam, Narayana Bhattatiri succinctly summarizing an important
section of Bhagavata observes:
????????????? ????????? ? ?? ??? ????: ??????????? ????? ?
Prof. Pollock only betrays his deep prejudice against the Vedic culture
when he concludes the abstract with another pronouncement that
?... [In sastras,] progress can only be achieved by a regressive
re-appropriation of the past The eternality of the Vedas, the sastra par
excellence, is one presupposition or justification for this assessment of
sastra. Its principal ideological effects are to naturalize and
de-historicize cultural practices, two components in a larger discourse of
power.?
It is precisely scholarship of this genre that Mahatma Gandhi aptly
characterised in his seminal work  *Hind Swaraj* over a hundred years ago:
    "The English ... have a habit of writing history; they pretend to study
the manners and customs of all peoples. God has given us a limited mental
capacity, but they usurp the function of the Godhead...  They write about
their own researches in most laudatory terms and hypnotise us into
believing them. We, in our ignorance, then fall at their feet."
We are not upset by Prof. Wujastyk's claim that ?Prof. Ramasubramanian has
misunderstood Prof. Pollock's views by 180 degrees?, though it is totally
incorrect. But we are deeply dismayed by his insinuation that many of
those who have signed this petition (most of them eminent Indian
scholars) ?have
signed Prof. Ramasubramanian's petition, presumably without having read
Prof. Pollock's work for themselves, or having failed to understand it.?
As indicated by Gandhi, statements exhibiting such condescension borders
almost on racial prejudice.
K Ramasubramanian,
Professor, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Bombay
M D Srinivas
Chairman, Center for Policy Studies, Chennai and Member ICHR
On Sat, Feb 27, 2016 at 9:31 PM, Dominik Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com>
wrote:
On Sat, Feb 27, 2016 at 9:31 PM, Dominik Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com>
wrote:
Dr. Stefan Baums
Institute for Indian and Tibetan Studies
Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich
