[INDOLOGY] Against the petition against Prof. Pollock
To spare everyone an extended polemic, I will simply say for the moment
that the 'anti-sedition' law of the Indian constitution is adopted directly
from colonial law.  It *does not* address 'hate speech', i.e. the
incitement of individuals or groups to commit violence against the
country's citizens.  (This would indeed be a good thing, and if there were
such a law, then half of the BJP and RSS, including the current Prime
Minister Narendra Modi, would be in jail!)
However, the anti-sedition law is vaguely worded and targeted against
'anti-national' activities, i.e. inciting action against the 'nation',
whatever that may be construed as.  (This was used against freedom fighters
during the anti-colonial struggle.)  The judgement in Singhal vs. Union of
India has only made the language more vague.  The current government is
using the statute in a novel way, using it to ban a variety of speech and
other freedoms (like assembly) that are typically protected under law.
Interpreted openly, it could be (and is being used to) prohibit forms of
'symbolic' violence or 'destabilization', like publishing maps of Kashmir
not okayed by the Indian government, to chant the names of those executed
by the Indian state, etc.
A law prohibiting hate speech would be most welcome-- then citizens could
then address the inciting rhetoric of many politicians and 'activists'
against women, Dalits, religious minorities, and the LGBT community (see
Martha Nussbaum's upcoming book on just this subject).
And, for what its worth, half of those alleged 'slogans' quoted in the
judge's report have recently been found to have been invented, manipulated,
or incited by members of the right-wing AVBP at the event, or by political
and media persons after the event.  They reflect Malhotra's and other's
misrepresentation of Pollock and non-Indian scholar's comments in an effort
to whip up existential fears and identity politics for narrow political
gains.
Perhaps others can weigh in.  In any case, I am not comfortable with this
one JNU student being asked to pay for the supposed intellectual 'disease'
of the students of his university, just as I am not comfortable with the
idea that a man like Afzal Guru, though "no evidence that [he] belonged to
any terrorist group or organization", should be executed for the purpose of
"satisfying the collective conscience." (The words are taken from the
court's execution order itself.)
Best,
TWW
On Thu, Mar 3, 2016 at 5:02 AM, Nityanand Misra <nmisra at gmail.com> wrote:
