[INDOLOGY] Against the petition against Prof. Pollock
Dear list
Apropos Prof. Tyler Williams' first point, the judgement mentions on page 6
that there were thirty slogans quoted in pages 3 to 5 of the status report
filed by the State. I do not have the status report, but Justice Rani
mentions on page 11 of her judgement seven of these slogans, which I
reproduce below along with my translations. The slogans eulogize Afzal Guru
(convicted by Indian courts for plotting a terrorist attack on the Indian
parliament), warn that India will be split into pieces, and call for
achieving freedom by the use of guns.
1. AFZAL GURU MAQBOOL BHATT JINDABAD.
English: Long live Afzal Guru and Maqbool Bhatt.
2. BHARAT KI BARBADI TAK JUNG RAHEGI JUNG RAHEGI
English: The battle will go on and on till India is destroyed.
3. GO INDIA GO BACK
English: No translation needed.
4. INDIAN ARMY MURDABAD
English: Death to Indian Army.
5. BHARAT TERE TUKKDE HONGE? INSHAALLAHA INSHAALLAHA
English: India, you will be split in pieces, Allah willing, Allah willing.
6. AFZAL KI HATYA NAHI SAHENGE NAHI SAHENGE
English: We will not tolerate the murder of Afzal Guru.
7. BANDOOK KI DUM PE LENGE AAZADI.
English: We will achieve freedom by the [use of] guns.
The court ruling does not specify what exactly is anti-national here, but I
think it is pretty obvious that glorification of the mastermind of the
attack on Indian Parliament, calls for waging a battle till India is
destroyed or achieving freedom by violence are anti-India.
In India, freedom of speech and expression is not absolute. As per clause
(2) of article 19 of the Indian Constitution (cited in Justice Rani's
judgement), existing laws can operate and new laws can be made to place
reasonable restrictions on the freedom of speech and expression ?in the
interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the
State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or
morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to
an offence.?
The slogans above need to be seen in this important context. Do they
qualify as sedition? I think so, but the Indian courts will rule. We will
need to see how they apply section 124A of the Indian Penal Code and the
Supreme Court ruling in the case of Kedar Nath Singh vs State Of Bihar
(1962 AIR 955, 1962 SCR Supl. 2 769) in this case. The 1962 ruling
(available here: http://indiankanoon.org/doc/111867/) interpreted 124A to
be applicable to activities involving ?incitement to violence or
intention/tendency to create public disorder or disturbance of law and
order/public peace.?
I disagree with the observations made by Prof. Tyler Williams in his points
(2) to (4), and especially the term repressive and totalitarian thought for
a judgement by an Indian court.
For point (2), I believe the point being made is that the Indian armed
forces ensure a safe environment. The word democracy is not used by the
Judge in the statement.
For point (3), the previous paragraph is relevant: ?The thoughts reflected
in the slogans raised by some of the students of JNU who organized and
participated in that programme cannot be claimed to be protected as
fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression. I consider this as a
kind of infection from which such students are suffering which needs to be
controlled/cured before it becomes an epidemic.? The judgement specifically
refers to the thoughts reflected in some specific slogans on JNU as an
?infection? and not to any expression speech questioning the government. I
do not think this is fascist language or pogrom logic.  The Indian
government is questioned every day in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya
Sabha the ongoing session of the parliament, and the court ruling certainly
does not apply to this.
For point (4), curbing of what the court calls anti-national activity is
not the same as policing all thought on campus. Criticism of the elected
government is not an anti-national activity, it happens all the time in
India and nobody gets charged with sedition for the same.
Thanks, Nityanand
On Mar 3, 2016 11:30 AM, "Tyler Williams" <tylerwwilliams at gmail.com> wrote:
