[INDOLOGY] MCLI / Pollock Petition
Dear list,
While Niti Central (which recently shut down) and Swarajya are certainly
pro-right/conservative magazines (just like The Hindu is
left-leaning/liberal), but to describe them as ?propaganda? would be an
exaggeration, just like calling The Hindu as ?communist? or ?Chinese
mouthpiece? would be (in fact, the Friends of Tibet society actually calls
The Hindu ?a mouthpiece of the Chinese communist party?, this was covered
by Pradip Ninan Thomas in his book ?Negotiating Communication Rights: Case
Studies from India?). In a recent article, the Financial Times described
the Swarajya magazine as ?conservative?.[1] Even Sreenivasan Jain, a
journalist with the NDTV (whose political leaning are no secret), described
the Niti Central as a ?right-wing site? in an article in 2013.[2]
As for Mr. Rajiv Malhotra?s latest book, it has already received attention
in India, in both the academic sphere and outside, way beyond websites like
Niti Central and Swarajya. I shared a link to the review of the book by
Bibek Debroy in the moderate/centrist OPEN Magazine. The book carries a
quote by Prof. Arvind Sharma (Birks Professor of Comparative Religion,
McGill University) on its front cover. It has earned praise from
Mahamahopadhyay Dayananda Bhargava (renowned Sanskrit scholar), S. R. Bhatt
(Chairman of ICPR), K. Ramasubramanian (Sanskrit scholar and signatory #1
on the MCLI petition), Roddam Narasimha (aerospace scientist), and Dilip
Chakrabarti (Professor Emeritus, Cambridge) among others. Some leading
educational institutes in India which have hosted Mr Malhotra since January
include the JNU, Ramakrishna Mission (Chennai), Vedic Gurukulam (Bidadi),
Art of Living Ashram (Bangalore), Chinmaya Mission, IIT Bombay, TISS, IIT
Madras, and Karnataka Sanskrit University.
As for attention outside the world of scholars, Mr. Malhotra's book was
launched by very well-known personalities: Subhash Chandra (Chairman of the
pro-right Zee Media) in Mumbai, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar (eminent spiritual
leader and humanitarian) in Bengaluru, and Dr. Najma Akbarali Heptulla
(Minority Affairs Minister, Government of India) in Delhi. Prominent
journalists and authors who have discussed his book include Madhu Kishwar
(pro-right academic and author), Amish Tripathi (best-selling author), and
T. V. Mohandas Pai (Chairman, Manipal Global Education).
I need not add that the book is selling well (it is a category bestseller
on Amazon India) and Harper Collins would be happy with their investment.
I doubt if all this attention can be ?staged? or ?managed?. There is an
elephant in the room. Love him or hate him, Mr. Malhotra is becoming too
notable to ignore.
Regards, Nityanand
[1] Amy Kazmim (February 21 2016) India divided over right to political
freedom. Financial Times.
[2] Sreenivasan Jain (June 29 2016). Response to Niti Central article on
NDTV's Ishrat Jahan report. NDTV.
On Mar 1, 2016 12:13 AM, "Ananya Vajpeyi" <vajpeyi at csds.in> wrote:
