[INDOLOGY] The Sun as the "21st" CORRECTION
I resend the post with a correction. In the fourth paragraph I had 
written "facing West," when it should read "facing East." It's corrected 
below, so please delete the previous message.
Apologies for a longish post.
Dear Walter,
The celestial equator is simply the projection of the terrestrial 
equator onto the celestial sphere. Equator means equalizer of day and 
night (http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=equator), which is a 
reference to the two equinoxes. When the sun crosses the celestial 
equator, which happens twice a year, day and night are of equal length. 
When it crosses the equator from south to north, it is the spring 
equinox (March 21st), and when it crosses it again from north to south, 
it is the autumnal equinox (sept. 22nd).
Now, if you want to divide the year in two on the basis of the celestial 
equator, each half of the year is the period between equinoxes, so one 
half includes spring and summer (Mar. 21 to Sept. 22), while the second 
half is made up of fall and winter (Sept. 22 to Mar. 21). But that 
doesn't correspond to the uttar?ya?a and the dak?i??yana. The uttar?ya?? 
goes from the winter solstice to the summer solstices, and the 
dak?i??yana from the summer solstice to the winter solstice. In other 
words, for the ayanas the division of the year in two is made along the 
line of the solstices, not along the line of the equinoxes.
In any case, to say that the Ekavi??a day is the (celestial) equator 
makes no astronomical sense. The Ekavi??a is one day of the year, 
whereas the (celestial) equator is a great circle of 360 degrees. If you 
wanted to define the ekavi??a with reference to the celestial equator, 
you'd have to say it is the day on which the sun, in its apparent 
movement throughout the year, reaches its highest distance to the north 
of the celestial equator. In astronomical terms, that is the day when 
the sun reaches its maximum northern declination.
But understanding the uttar?ya?a and the dak?in?yana doesn't require all 
these complicated visualizations of celestial circles. Ancient observers 
of the sky didn't look at it in those terms. For them, it was an 
observable phenomenon that is easy to track. You watch the sunrise every 
day for a year facing East, and notice how the sunrise point moves along 
the horizon as days proceed. There are two maximum points, one when the 
sunrise point is farthest to the left (North) along the horizon, and the 
other when it is farthest to the right (South). Those two points are the 
solstices. That is where the terms uttar?ya?a and dak?in?ya?a come from. 
During the uttar?ya?a, the sun rises more to the left/North (uttara) 
every day until the Summer solstice. Then it reverses its movement and 
starts rising every day further to the right/South (dak?i?a) until it 
reaches the Winter solstice.
That is why the Ekavi??a is the day of the summer solstice.
And when the AB says: "By means of the performance of this day, the gods 
had raised the Sun up to the heavens," that's probably a reference to 
the fact that at the summer solstice thew sun reaches its highest 
altitude above the horizon at midday. After that, the maximum altitude 
of the sun at noon gradually decreases.
Cheers,
Luis
On 3/19/2016 12:20 AM, Walter Slaje wrote:
