[INDOLOGY] Against the petition against Prof. Pollock
Dear colleagues,
I must apologize in advance-- I would like to keep the discussion on a
positive note, and concisely explore ways that we can continue to work
together to not only protect intellectual freedoms but also to make the
public more aware of the good work being done by Indian and non-Indian
Indologists (many of you are already doing this important work that helps
to avoid the kind of under-informed positions that are gaining currency).
I also greatly appreciate the insights shared by Dominik, Ananya, Matthew,
Anandavardhanan, Andrew and numerous others.
Yet I find the suggestion that "The full judgement of Pratibha Rani should
likewise be read by all those who signed the solidarity statement on JNU"
because "they can learn a lesson or two from it," a bit troubling.  I agree
that we should all read the statement-- it is a clear marker of how
imperiled free speech and intellectual freedom at Indian universities are
at the present moment.  However, the suggestion that scholars like Sheldon
Pollock, myself, and many of you who signed the petition in support of JNU
should 'learn' from Justice Rani's statement is deeply troubling.  Among
the many problematic things Justice Rani has written, the following stand
out:
1. "The thoughts reflected in the slogans raised by some of the students of
JNU who organized and participated in that programme cannot be claimed to
be protected as fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression. I
consider this as a kind of infection from which such students are suffering
which needs to be controlled/cured before it becomes an epidemic."  Neither
does the Justice Rani specify exactly or convincingly what is
'anti-national' in the students' thought and speech, nor does she explain
why it is anti-national.
2. "Suffice it to note that such persons enjoy the freedom to raise such
slogans in the comfort of University Campus but without realising that they
are in this safe environment because our forces are there at the battle
field situated at the highest altitude of the world where even the oxygen
is so scarce that those who are shouting anti-national slogans holding
posters of Afzal Guru and Maqbool Bhatt close to their chest honoring their
martyrdom, may not be even able to withstand those conditions for an hour
even." This bizarrely-worded argument referencing Siachen glacier suggests
that the exercise of military power ensures democracy, *not the actual
exercise of democratic rights like the right to free speech.*
3. "Whenever some infection is spread in a limb, effort is made to cure the
same by giving antibiotics orally and if that does not work, by following
second line of treatment. Sometimes it may require surgical intervention
also. However, if the infection results in infecting the limb to the extent
that it becomes gangrene, amputation is the only treatment." This reference
to the aforementioned 'epidemic' is a clear and chilling threat made to
those who dare to question the government, echoing the language of fascist
regimes and pogrom logic.
4. Justice Rani states that she grants bail to the jailed president of the
JNU Students Union on the condition that "as President of JNU Students
Union, he will make all efforts within his power to control anti-national
activities in the campus" and elsewhere suggests that JNU faculty and
administrators should curb anti-national thought on campus.  This amounts
to nothing less than an order to police thought on the university campus
and a threat that failure to do so will result in the cancelation of bail.
Since this email is already lengthy, I will simply invite colleagues to
read the document, but do wish to register my serious concern that this
appears to be a step backward, not forward, in securing intellectual and
political freedoms in the academy.  Let's please keep the conversation
positive and moving forward, but we should also not let it go unremarked
when it is suggested that we who have the temerity to speak up for academic
freedom should 'learn from' repressive and totalitarian thought.
Respectfully,
Tyler Williams
Assistant Professor
University of Chicago
On Wed, Mar 2, 2016 at 9:40 PM, Nityanand Misra <nmisra at gmail.com> wrote:
