From wujastyk at gmail.com  Fri Mar  4 01:38:20 2016
From: wujastyk at gmail.com (Dominik Wujastyk)
Date: Thu, 03 Mar 16 18:38:20 -0700
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Post-editing a petition at Change.org
Message-ID: <CAKdt-CeHBOgDJoUsGWYRBk2OQd1TGQcLWG0qct2-jSaVCVAeNA@mail.gmail.com>

Dear colleagues,

Quite apart from the substantive issues? being discussed relating to the
Murty series editorship, I was puzzled by the procedural rules at
Change.org.  After about four thousand people had signed the present
petition, the name of the person who had started the petition was changed,
and the text of the petition itself was altered.  It surprised me that this
was possible according to the Change.org rules.  Surely it means that the
first four thousand people had signed a somewhat different petition than
the one we see today, to which their names are still attached.

The petition hasn't changed *that* much, so this isn't a very important
point in the present case.  But it's not hard to imagine more extreme
examples.  What if the petitioners changed the petiton in subtle but really
critical ways?   A whole bunch of people could find their names attached to
something they really wouldn't have wished to support.

I wrote to Change.org to ask about this.  Their answer is below.
Basically, they're saying, anyone can do anything, and it's up to the
signatories to watch out that the petition hasn't altered while they
weren't looking.  They can withdraw if they don't like the alterations to
the petition. Caveat emptor.

This policy quite strongly diminishes my trust in the change.org platform.

Best,
Dominik Wujastyk


---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Change.org Help Center (Change.org Help Center) <help at change.org>
Date: 1 March 2016 at 11:29
Subject: [Change.org Help Center] Re: post-editing a petition
To: Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com>


*?C?*
*hange.org <http://hange.org> Help Center* (Change.org Help Center)

Mar 1, 12:29 PM
Hello Dominik,

Thank you for getting back to me. I'm sorry if I was not clear in my
response. You question was about attachment of supporters signatures to a
difference statement by way of changing petition text from it's original
version.

Change.org merely provides a free platform to the users to create petitions
and bring change in their communities and around the world. While doing so,
we do not fact-check or endorse any of the campaigns on our site. It's up
to the supporters to evaluate a petition and support worthy causes and
follow all supported petitions. Supporters are at liberty to withdraw their
support at any stage if they see a deviation in the petition's objectives

Users also have the ability to flag any content as inappropriate by
selecting an appropriate category on the petition page. Once a content is
flagged inappropriate, our compliance team audits the contents and take
necessary action, including taking down the petition, if found in violation
of our Terms of Services or Community Guidelines.

Feel free to contact us if you have any other concerns or questions.

Best wishes,

Muhammad
Change.org Help Center


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20160303/ec4f3dcf/attachment.htm>

