From shalinisinha90 at hotmail.com  Fri Apr 15 19:29:56 2016
From: shalinisinha90 at hotmail.com (Shalini Sinha)
Date: Fri, 15 Apr 16 19:29:56 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Another round in the California textbook story
In-Reply-To: <5622B5FA1B14F3439A3ABC85C5A09EA823DEC6CD@EX-1-MB1.lancs.local>
Message-ID: <DUB117-W82E3C3788FACC4939BB437C3680@phx.gbl>

I have to agree with Ram's well-pointed critique of both sides of this debate.  There is surely a need for a more critical appraisal of Abrahamic religious traditions and histories with regard to imperialism, gender, and so on, as much as there is of caste iniquities, and the oppression of Dalits and women in Hinduism. At the same time, the core religio-philosophical ideas, debates, and practices of the latter need to be presented with clarity and insight - as they do in the case of other religious traditions.
This is apparent to any parent who has witnessed what is taught in British schools.  As someone who has been through the Canadian school system and worked as a university student on revising Ontario high school textbooks in the 1980s - in Economics rather than Religions - it is astonishing how little has been done in this regard in the U.S. and Britain.
Nathaniel Adams Tobias Coleman has raised some of these issues for the study of philosophy, something I am more conversant with, and we are certainly trying to change the philosophy curriculum at the undergraduate level to reflect these concerns.  This is part of a BME (black, minority, ethnic) initiative in universities that comes under "Why is my curriculum white?" The initiative addresses not only the inclusion of 'world philosophies' in the curriculum but also the question of method - how they are presented vis-a-vis 'Western philosophy', and with regard to global issues and current socio-political and economic  concerns.
A parallel, more critical framework for the study of religions at the high school level appears equally essential.

Shalini

Dr. Shalini SinhaLecturer in Non-Western PhilosophyDepartment of PhilosophyUniversity of Reading
From: c.ram-prasad at lancaster.ac.uk
To: indology at list.indology.info
Date: Fri, 15 Apr 2016 16:34:42 +0000
Subject: Re: [INDOLOGY] Another round in the California textbook story









As someone who watched my son's essay when he was at school actually get marked down in History because he
 argued that it did not make sense to talk about what was ?good? about the British Empire, I do get fed up about the huge variations in what counts as enough ?realism? for school children, and how nationalism (and its asociated religious history) regularly
 whitewashes the past. Looking at undergraduates in Britain, a great deal more of unvarnished reality is needed. 
In Britain, it is notable that Christianity gets read in school under ?Theology? and ?Ethics?, so that the focus is almost entirely on conceptual issues, while Hinduism is mostly studied sociologically. So students coming into first year university classes
