=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]=09Yama/niyama_in_P=C3=84_=C3=85=E2=80=BAupata_and_Yoga?=
1. When we bring  Vishnu into this discussion, we need to clarify whether
we are talking about the Vedic concepts such as Narayana and Vishnu as
distinct from the Puranic Vishnu/ Narayana , with attributes such as  the
vaikunThavAsa etc.
 2. The Upanishadic concept of Is'vara , like the one with identical name
in nyAya and other dars'anas is not a deity neither Vedic nor Puranic but a
doctrinal category. Since, unlike in the case of the other dars'anas, in
Upanishads, there is a scope for vEdArtha upabrmhaNa link with Puranas
or Veda-Vedanta relation with the Vedas , the Upanishadic doctrinal
category of Is'vara is open to the discussion of whether that can be viewed
as Shiva of the Puranas or Vishnu of the Vedas or Narayana of the Vedas or
Vishnu / Narayana  of the Puranas.
3. In common parlance and in many textual usages too the word Is'vara being
taken as a synonym of Shiva is in abundance. But those can not be mixed
with the discussion of what the Upanishadic doctrinal category
of Is'vara  is equivalent to in among the Vedic or Puranic deities.
4. The Upanishadic doctrinal category of Is'vara is discussed as a part of
a group of doctrinal categories consisting of Brahman, Is'vara and Jiva.
5. At a certain level, Brahman and Is'vara are both equated with the
supreme deity of each of the pAramyavAda traditions, i.e., with Shiva in
Shaivism and with Vishnu in Vaishnavism. At another level, the distinction
between Brahman and Is'vara is taken into account and which form of Vishnu
(in Vaishnavism) or Shiva (in Shaivism) is to be taken as Brahman and which
form of Vishnu (in Vaishnavism) or Shiva (in Shaivism) is to be taken as
Is'vara is discussed.
6. Dr Ganesan is clearly taking a Shaivite position by saying that the
Upanishadic  doctrinal category of Is'vara is to be taken as Shiva and any
argument saying that the Upanishadic  doctrinal category of Is'vara is to
be taken as Vishnu could look to be Vaishnavite to him.
I don't think you are trying to take a Vaishnavite position here, are you?
On Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 6:46 PM, Aleksandar Uskokov <uskokov at uchicago.edu>
wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
