[INDOLOGY] Eating flesh of a jogi, a magician, a healer
Dear Nagaraj
Definitely - more than that.
Have you, by any chance, had an opportunity to read it?
Now, considering the milieu in which the epic (I'll insist on using this
term - OK - folk epic) was created and recreated, I am more than just
curious about the *channels of transmission* - many of the motives present
in the text have their origin in the Rajput lore (which, in its turn,
freely uses Sanskrit epics narrative material).
Dhanatthar is The Healer, per se - in his earlier personification as
Dhanvantari  it was he who brought out from the depths of the primeval
ocean the pot with amrita,  the Nectar of Immortality.
In our times his powers weaken, he is unable to counteract The Virulent
Serpent's (Tatig Nag, epic Takshaka)  poison - and so he asks his disciples
to eat the flesh of their dying Master - so that his great healing powers
are not lost to humanity.
That motif relates the epic to tantrik  traditions, in their v?m?c?ra
forms; consuming the Master's flesh may belong to them.
Some others have their source in folk-lore; spells found in the text belong
to medicinal magic lore.
The richness of this text, of its form and of its content, makes me imagine
its singers (*belonging to the scavengers' community*) as attentive
listeners to other, more prestigious performances, spotting out the most
attractive motifs/images and narrative tricks - and then using them freely
in their own performances.
I think of them as active participants in and co-creators of the N-W
India's culture.
In fact, their text can be easily made into a scenario for one of those
C-class Hindi movies, perhaps - even a series of such movies. I,
personally, would guarantee their instant popularity.
My Polish translation of "Princess Niwal-Dai"/"?ahr Safidon ki Kahani" is
ready, it's going to be published, hopefully soon, under the title
"Daughter of a Thousand Serpents" ("C?rka Tysi?ca W???w").
In some, again hopefully near, future, the text, together with the
Astika-parvan of the Mbh., is going to be used in a planned comparative
study, under the working title: "?ahr Safidon [...] and Astika-Parvan: Two
Strategies for Survival".
Best,
from Warsaw,
Artur
2016-04-27 7:16 GMT+02:00 Nagaraj Paturi <nagarajpaturi at gmail.com>:
