[INDOLOGY] From the Mahabharata
The context is also relevant. I am copying my response sent offline to Prof
Artur Karp yesterday. Hopefully this will add some value to the discussion.
I believe the verse has to be seen in its context. A Br?hma?a family,
observing a penance in which they ate only once a day, went without food
for several days in the summer (Jye??ha) due to a great famine (not because
they voluntarily abstained from food). Then one day the Br?hma?a succeeded
in getting some food. However, just as the family sat down to eat, a
Br?hma?a guest (actually Dharma Himself) arrived. The family parted with
their own food to feed the guest. The Br?hma?a guest then uttered these
verses, saying that the host Br?hma?a had conquered Heaven by this act
(giving food to the guest even when the host was himself hungry).
?Since thou hast made this gift, in a season of great difficulty, with a
pure heart, thou hast, by this act of thine, conquered Heaven.
Hunger destroys one's wisdom and drives off one's righteous understanding.
One whose intelligence is overwhelmed by hunger casts off all fortitude.
He, therefore, that conquers hunger conquers Heaven without doubt.?
The Br?hma?a says hunger destroys righteous intellect (?dharmy? buddhi?),
i.e. makes people give up Dharma. The Pa?catantra expresses this as
?bubhuk?ita? ki? na karoti p?pa? k???? nar? ni?karu?? bhavanti? (?What sin
is not committed by one who is hungry? Those who are emaciated are
merciless.?). But the Br?hma?a family did not give up Dharma even when they
were emaciated. Therefore, to me the essence of ?conquering hunger? in this
context is not abstention from food even when the body is hungry, rather it
refers to the Br?hma?a family's [one-time] act of upholding atithi-dharma
and feeding a hungry guest even though the family was itself hungry. The
host Br?hma?a and his family conquered their own hunger to satisfy the
hunger of a guest.
Another thing to note is this is not a prescriptive statement or
recommended action like ?One should conquer hunger to conquer Heaven.? The
form jayate is in ?la? lak?ra? (present mood) which is not used for
prescriptive statements: the ?vidhili? lak?ra? (optative mood) is. As it is
not a prescriptive statement, the author does not want the reader to
wilfully abstain from food in order to reach Heaven.
On Apr 26, 2016 12:30 PM, "Nagaraj Paturi" <nagarajpaturi at gmail.com> wrote:
bubhuk??? jayate yas tu sa svarga? jayate dhruvam
bubhuk??? jayate yas tu  does not mean one who loses hunger or one who can
stay without being hungry. It means one who keeps one's hunger under one's
control .
k?udh? nir?udati praj??? dharmy?? buddhi? vyapohati
means uncontrolled hunger destroys one's wisdom and drives off one's
righteous understanding.
Issue is bubhukShaajaya and not bubhukShaateevrataa or bubhukShaasaumyataa.
On Tue, Apr 26, 2016 at 10:53 AM, Artur Karp <karp at uw.edu.pl> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
