[INDOLOGY] query about an inscribed object
How do the two things sticking out of either side ?that look like triggers move or work? ?Can the internal mechanism if any be described, photographed, or diagrammed? ?Answers to these might help to guess the function or nature of the object.
Allen
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android 
  On Fri, May 6, 2016 at 8:06 PM, Herman Tull<hermantull at gmail.com> wrote:   I've been told the images didn't appear.? Here is another attempt.
What is the object? Also, help with the translation will be appreciated.
Herman Tull
?
On Fri, May 6, 2016 at 8:03 PM, Herman Tull <hermantull at gmail.com> wrote:
Elliott,
I stripped away some elements; hopefully, this will work.
Also, I am attaching it for you.? If you can see it, do you know what it is?
Thanks,
Herman
On Fri, May 6, 2016 at 7:31 PM, Elliot Stern <emstern at verizon.net> wrote:
Herman,
My Mac doesn?t display the images. In this reply, the message missing plug-in replaces the question marks in the message I received. If I need a plug-in, what is it??
Elliot M. Stern
552 South 48th Street
Philadelphia, PA 19143-2029
United States of America
telephone: 215-747-6204
mobile: 267-240-8418
emstern at verizon.net
On 06 May ?2016, at 17:18, Herman Tull <hermantull at gmail.com> wrote:
A student sent me the image below, asking if I could translate it.? I'm used to devanagari in printed texts, and, while I can make out most of it, I am not at all sure what all the letter-signs even are.? Further, I have no idea what the language it is. If anyone can read and translate this, I would appreciate the help.
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)  
