[INDOLOGY] suicide as a result of love
Somewhat a different scene on the Tamil side, as usual! The narrations are not just about romantic-love but about feelings for loved-ones also.
1. In the Tamil version of the Ramayana (that is, Kambaramayana) ? Devi Sita was about to commit suicide since Rama hadn?t yet come to her rescue from Ravana?s captivity. That was when Rama?s messenger Hanuman appeared and assured her that Rama would be there soon.
2. In the (Jain?) epic Silappatikaram, as the aftermath of the unlawful killing of the hero Kovalan, many women who were associated with Kovalan and his wife Kannaki commit suicide through several means ? the Jain ascetic Kavunti (???????) by fasting (?sallekhana"), their shepherd-hostess Madhari (?????) by 'plunging into the fire,? and Kovalan?s  mother and Kannaki?s mother virtually enduring misery.  
2. In the Buddhist epic Manimekalai, in Manimekelai?s previous birth, one of her sisters (t?rai) committed suicide by falling from the terrace of their palace because their another sister (v?rai) was killed by an untrained elephant when she was drunk.
3. In the same epic Manimekalai, we read about one ?tirai (?????) who tried to commit suicide as a ?sati? because she thought her husband died in a commercial ship-wreck. 
4. The same epic Manimekalai talks about ?puttira? (??????????) whom I?d say is the very soul of the epic. This man actually "missed the boat (not idiomatically)? when he was on a trip to Java from South India for serving the community there. He missed the ship and was stuck in an island where he found no one to serve. So he committed suicide by fasting. Later on, the nine merchants who travelled with him, realizing that he was missing, came in search of him and found him dead. So, they all committed suicide by fasting. 
5. Later on in folklore, we hear about a woman named nallata?k?? (???????????) who suffered poverty and threw her 7-children into a well and committed suicide by falling into the well.
++++++++++
Interesting facts from my perspective are:
1. Women committing suicide by jumping into the fire was instituted by the Vedic culture.
2. In none of the narratives do I find any man committing suicide for anyone?s sake in their personal life. Of course, there are reports about men dying in war for the sake of their country. 
3. While the Jain system approves suicide, the Buddhist system condemns it. Proof is in Manimekalai. In the epic Manimekalai, ?puttira? (??????????) is condemned for committing suicide and his action being a cause for the suicide of nine other merchants.
Eager to learn more.
Thanks and regards,
rajam
