[INDOLOGY] Caste system and Buddhism
Alakendu Das was able to find the specific reference for the statement that
I had asked about, and has kindly provided me with it. It is not the
Bodhisattva-bh?mi directly, for which we already have the references thanks
to Matthew and Dan, but rather is the 1932 book by Har Dayal, *The
Bodhisattva Doctrine in Buddhist Sanskrit Literature*, pp. 207-208. In
Chapter 5, "The P?ramit?s," in the section on ??la-p?ramit?, Har Dayal
discusses the ten constituents of ??la and then writes about the motives
and sanctions for such right action, concluding (p. 205): "Pure hedonism
thus seems to be the ruling theory of Buddhist ethics."
A few pages later we come to the doctrine in question (p. 207): "The
Mah?y?nists
have thus gone through the entire gamut of the motives that govern human
conduct. But they have rather stultified themselves by teaching the strange
doctrine that a bodhisattva may violate any or all of the precepts of ??la,
if he is moved by compassion for others. This view has led to much subtle
casuistry. The Bo. Bh?. [Bodhisattva-bh?mi] and other treatises explain
that the ethical rules are not absolute. They may be infringed, if a
bodhisattva can thereby render service to an unfortunate creature. . . .
The medieval monks of Europe also passed through a period of widespread
corruption; but they did not formulate a regular philosophy of degeneracy.
The later Mah?y?nists sought to justify the sensual escapades of the monks
(alias bodhisattvas) by referring to the assumed motive of karu??. Tantrism
cast its shadow before." (p. 208): "The author of the Bodhisattva-bh?mi
indicates the circumstances, in which a bodhisattva may infringe the seven
chief precepts. He may kill a person, who intends to murder a monk or his
own parents. . . . In this way, the Mah?y?nists teach that the end
justifies the means and that a bodhisattva may sometimes adopt St. Paul's
device of 'becoming all things to all men'."
I had never read this book by Har Dayal, and I can only say that I
understand the Bodhisattva-bh?mi differently than he does. Nor do I think
that Har Dayal's understanding is supported by the good examples from
history provided by Dan and Matthew, of the killing of the "evil king"
Glang-dar-ma, or more recently the justification by the Tibetan president
of the Chinese Buddhist Association of some of the excesses of Maoist
policy. Of course, we today have a major advantage over Har Dayal in that
we have direct access to the Tibetan tradition of exegesis, so that we can
see how this book was there understood, and to Tibetan culture and history,
so that we can see how these ethics played out in real life.
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Sun, Jun 5, 2016 at 7:47 AM, David and Nancy Reigle <dnreigle at gmail.com>
wrote:
