<http://wenshuchan-online.weebly.com/charles-luks-translations.html>
Description below is seen in one of the footnotes to Hanshan's commentary
on Diamond Sutra.
The number 8 is a symbol of the Eighth Consciousness or alaya?vijnana and 4
of the four forms (laksana) of ego, being, personality and life. Together
they imply the Eighth Consciousness held in bondage by the four forms, i.e.
Space. The long line of zeros is a symbol of Time, and so long as one
remains deluded it is immaterial to add 10 or 1,000 more zeros at the end
of the line. The Buddha was still under delusion when he met Dipamkara
Buddha, but when he attained enlightenment, the digits 8 and 4 were
instantly transmuted into the Great Mirror Wisdom and the Dharma?kaya
respectively, and the long line of zeros became meaningless. Thus, space
and time were wiped out in an instant (ksana).
The same website has the following too:
Taken loosely, it means 'many'. There is a sense of completion to it; i.e.,
that the number accounts for every kind of affliction and every kind of
corresponding wisdom. For each of the many various afflictions of mind,
there is a medicine, a corresponding teaching and practice.
More specifically, there are said to be 21,000 particular manifestations of
each of the Three Poisons (craving, aversion, dullness or greed, anger,
ignorance) and 21,000 manifestations of all three together.
http://84000.co/insights-from-a-teacher-an-interview-with-dilgo-yangsi-khyentse-rinpoche/
has a detailed explanation on almost the lines of the first above.
The first para of the second above is seconded by the following at
http://www.dharmanet.org/coursesM/Shin/JodoShinshu2.htm
Because Sakyamuni Buddha taught in a very personal manner, it is said that
he gave 84,000 messages during his lifetime. The number 84,000 is probably
arbitrary. However, it is meant to convey the idea that the Buddha
exhausted all the possible ways for humanity to reach enlightenment. The
number of paths is an expression of the universality of the Buddha-Dharma.
Within the 84,000 paths, one path is most suited to you. This is the
expression of the personal aspect of the Buddha-Dharma. In other words,
these 84,000 paths will allow everyone to become a Buddha. Taken together,
the 84,000 paths are what has is known as the Dharma; the Truth to which a
Buddha becomes Enlightened.
On Sun, Jun 19, 2016 at 6:41 AM, Ruth Satinsky Sieber <Ruth.Satinsky at unil.ch
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
