[INDOLOGY] PhD Scholarship in history of Indian mathematical sciences, University of Canterbury New Zealand
Dear Colleagues,
This is to announce a 3-year fully funded PhD Scholarship in the History of Indian Mathematical Sciences
supervised by Dr Clemency Montelle and Dr Kim Plofker at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand.
Applications due 29 July 2016 and start date negotiable.
Details attached and below.
Please don't hesitate to contact me for further information and please do encourage eligible candidates to apply.
With best wishes,
Dr Clemency Montelle
http://www.math.canterbury.ac.nz/~c.montelle/
School of Mathematics and Statistics
University of Canterbury | Te Whare Wananga o Waitaha
Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140
NEW ZEALAND
An international project on the history of mathematical sciences in Sanskrit sources has been awarded a five-year grant from New Zealand?s funds for research excellence, the Rutherford Discovery Fellows, administered by the Royal Society of New Zealand.
The 5-year project is entitled ?New perspectives on the history of the exact sciences in second millennium Sanskrit sources?.
As part of the activities of this project, the investigators are offering a PhD scholarship. The scholarship will provide an annual living allowance/stipend of NZ$20,000 and full tuition costs while in New Zealand. It is tenable for study towards the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in the appropriate department or program on the topic of the history of math- ematical sciences, at the University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand (http://www.canterbury.ac.nz/).
The successful awardee will research and write a PhD thesis under a supervisory committee including the Principal Investigator, Dr Clemency Montelle, Associate Investigator, Dr Kim Plofker, and, where appropriate, scholars at associated institution(s). The thesis topic will relate to the project goals, and focus on some aspect of second millennium Sanskrit exact sciences e.g., a critical edition with translation and commentary of a previously unpublished text on Sanskrit computational astronomy or mathematics, or related disciplines.
This email may be confidential and subject to legal privilege, it may
not reflect the views of the University of Canterbury, and it is not
guaranteed to be virus free. If you are not an intended recipient,
please notify the sender immediately and erase all copies of the message
and any attachments.
Please refer to http://www.canterbury.ac.nz/emaildisclaimer for more
information.
