[INDOLOGY] Unicode Devanagari on Mac
As someone who has worked on Indic fonts (Tamil and Devanagari as well as roman transliteration) from the early 80?s and the time of the Lisa, I?d like to add my thoughts. It is wonderful to be able to use unicode for all the diacritical marks we need for all devices and operating systems (though as noted sometimes when you have several on the same letter they do not transfer well), but I don?t see that using them is particularly easy when you have to press many keys at once. Perhaps one can get up to speed this way, but option-(x) is pretty unsatisfactory, and option-shift-(x) even more so.
I don?t know all the keyboard layouts that are available for roman transliteration of various South Asia languages (and, for this forum, Sanskrit especially). I would hope some are easier to use than option-shift-(x). The best solution, I think, is to use a dead key. That way, you don?t have to keep one key pressed down while you press another. I have a very simple keyboard layout for the Mac (which still works in Sierra) that uses forward slash as a dead key. /a gives ?, // gives /, /r gives ?, /h gives ?, etc. Any keyboard like this is easily constructed using Ukulele, a free Mac app, as many on this forum know. If anyone wants to try it out, here it is ? https://www.dropbox.com/s/twsgq6xayubqbxa/IndianRomanUnicode.keylayout.zip?dl=0. It can easily be modified with Ukulele to add, for example, Vedic accents. I hope it may prove useful to some scholars. (Unzip the file, put it in Library/Keyboard Layouts and activate it in Language and Region in System Preferences). Unfortunately, there is no way to get it to work in iOS that I have found, and, of course, it doesn?t work on Windows, though it should not be too hard to make a similar layout for that OS.
I find myself somewhat allergic to Word, whether on Windows or the Mac (even the newest version). I use Nisus Writer Pro, which is written entirely using the MacOS development system rather than cobbling together things that have various other provenances (making Indic fonts unworkable on most Mac versions of Word). I find NWP absolutely indispensable and recently produced a camera-ready pdf of my translation of the Akan????u it. I recommend it highly. George
