[INDOLOGY] reviews of Malhotra's books
Eventhough Vivekananda was a superstar of neo-Hinduism, with His ?atypical ?vision with the tradition, he did some influence in scholars such as Amado Nervo, Ruben Dario and others who were the parents of the literary movement called modernism. Also, in the ?intellectuals of?Mexican Revolution ?movement ?like Francisco I. Madero,Alfonso Reyes, Jose Vasconcelos, they were regular readers of the Upanishads, the Gita and wrote about Krishna, etc. This affected the Nobel Prize Octavio Paz.?Sincerily.Dr. Horacio Francisco Arganis Ju?rez Lic. M.A. Ph. D. Catedr?tico Investigador de la Universidad Internacional Euroamericana. Departamento de Filosof?a y Religi?n Comparada. www.uie.edu.es
      De: Nagaraj Paturi <nagarajpaturi at gmail.com>
 Para: Dominik Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com> 
CC: Indology List <indology at list.indology.info>
 Enviado: Jueves, 4 de agosto, 2016 1:18:36
 Asunto: Re: [INDOLOGY] reviews of Malhotra's books
https://www.harpercollins.com/9789351362449/indras-net has the following: 
About the Book 
 Originating in the Atharva Veda, the concept of Indra's Net is a powerful metaphor for interconnectedness. It was transmitted via Buddhism's Avatamsaka Sutra into Western thought, where it now resides at the heart of post-modern discourse. According to this metaphor, nothing ultimately exists separately by itself and all boundaries can be deconstructed. This book invokes Indra's Net to articulate the open architecture, unity and continuity of Hinduism. Seen from this perspective, Hinduism defies pigeonholing into the traditional, modern and post-modern categories by which the West defines itself; rather, it becomes evident that Hinduism has always spanned all three categories simultaneously and without contradiction. It is fashionable among intellectuals to assert that dharma traditions lacked any semblance of unity before the British period, and that the contours of contemporary Hinduism were bequeathed to us by our colonial masters. Such arguments routinely target Swami Vivekananda, a key interlocutor who shattered many deeply rooted prejudices against Indian civilization. They accuse him of having camouflaged various alleged 'contradictions' within traditional Hinduism, and charge him with having appropriated the principles of Western religion to 'manufacture' a coherent and unified worldview and set of practices known today as Hinduism. Indra's Net: Defending Hinduism's Philosophical Unity provides a foundation for theories that slander contemporary Hinduism as illegitimate, ascribing sinister motives to its existence, and characterizing its fabric as oppressive. Rajiv Malhotra offers a detailed, systematic rejoinder to such views, and articulates the multidimensional, holographic understanding of reality that grounds Hindu dharma. He also argues that Vivekananda's creative interpretations of Hindu dharma informed and influenced many Western intellectual movements of the post-modern era. Indeed, as he cites with many insightful examples, appropriations from Hinduism have provided a foundation for cutting-edge discoveries in several fields, including cognitive science and neuroscience. 
On Thu, Aug 4, 2016 at 1:30 AM, Dominik Wujastyk <wujastyk at gmail.com> wrote:
On 2 August 2016 at 07:08, Dean Michael Anderson via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
From:?Dean Michael Anderson <eastwestcultural at yahoo.com>
To:?Indology List <indology at list.indology.info>
Date:?Tue, 2 Aug 2016 05:06:51 +0000 (UTC)
?
 "The conceptual matrix of integral unity is illustrated in the metaphor??[...]"
?Isn't that a quote from Alan Sokal, "Transgressing the Boundaries"???
?:-)?
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
Nagaraj Paturi?Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.?Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies?FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of??Liberal Education,?(Pune, Maharashtra,?INDIA?)???
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
