[INDOLOGY] Buddhist Philosophy position
Dear Members,
I wish to call to your attention a new position in Buddhist Philosophy at the University of New Mexico. Please note that the field of degree is open. Asianists are encouraged to apply.
Yours truly,
John Taber
Regents' Professor
Philosophy Department
University of New Mexico
Albuquerque, NM 87131
Job opening in Buddhist Philosophy
Department of Philosophy
University of New Mexico
Rank: Assistant or Associate Professor
Start Date: August 2017
Best Consideration Date for Applications: 19 October 2016
Position Summary:
With generous support from the Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation, the University of New Mexico Department of Philosophy is pleased to invite applications for a full-time tenure-stream position in Buddhist Philosophy at the rank of Assistant or Associate Professor.  The anticipated start date is August 2017.  AOS: Buddhist Philosophy.  AOC: Open.  Customary undergraduate and graduate teaching duties, including thesis supervision, and non-teaching duties in Philosophy.
We are seeking an outstanding scholar, with a strong background in Philosophy, who combines excellence in Buddhist Philosophy with intellectual breadth and curiosity; whose research will either contribute to or complement the Department?s current strength in South Asian Buddhist Philosophy; who is able to teach courses that contribute to the Department?s undergraduate major programs; who will enjoy working in a philosophically diverse department; and who has a demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and student success, as well as to working with broadly diverse communities.
Minimum requirements are a Ph.D. (or equivalent) in Philosophy or related field (such as South Asian Studies, Religious Studies, or Buddhist Studies) by the start of the appointment, and a research specialization in Buddhist Philosophy. The University of New Mexico is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and Educator. Women and minorities are encouraged to apply. Salary is competitive.
For the complete description of this position as well as detailed information about how to apply, please visit the UNMJobs web site (https://unmjobs.unm.edu/) and reference posting number 0835837. For further information on the UNM Department of Philosophy, please visit our website (http://philosophy.unm.edu<http://philosophy.unm.edu/>), call 505.277.2405, or email our Department Administrator, Mercedes Nysus, at mnice at unm.edu.<mailto:mnice at unm.edu>
For best consideration, please apply by October 19, 2016.  Position will remain open until filled.
To Apply:
Applicants should attach their cover letter, CV, writing sample, and evidence of teaching effectiveness to their online application via the UNMJobs web site: https://unmjobs.unm.edu/ This position is listed as posting number 0835837.  Please convert all files to PDF format before uploading them to UNMJobs.
Upon viewing the complete job posting in UNMJobs, please give careful attention to the instructions listed under ?Special Instructions to Applicants."  To be considered complete, applications must include all of the materials described in that section, including at least three confidential letters of recommendation.
Letters should be emailed to philsearch at unm.edu,<mailto:philsearch at unm.edu> with the candidate?s name appearing in the subject line. All letters must be submitted by 19 October,2016, to ensure best consideration.
Applicants who are appointed to a UNM continuing appointment are required to provide an official certification of successful completion of all degree requirements prior to their initial employment with UNM.
