[INDOLOGY] Position in South Asian Religions at the University of	Toronto
Dear friends and colleagues,
I am excited to share with you the following job advertisement for a tenure-stream position in South Asian Religions at the University of Toronto. We would be grateful if you could forward the advertisement to any potential candidates who may be interested.
Thank you,
Ajay Rao
Associate Professor
University of Toronto
The Department of Historical Studies at the University of Toronto Mississauga invites applications for a tenure-stream position in South Asian Religions at the rank of Assistant Professor. The appointment will begin on July 1, 2017.
Applicants must have earned a PhD with a focus on South Asian religions by the date of appointment or shortly thereafter. We seek applicants whose scholarly record demonstrates expertise in the study of primary sources within their historical, philosophical, devotional, aesthetic, and/or performative contexts and whose work is also situated within the broader study of religion. Candidates must demonstrate strong linguistic skills in the primary source language(s) of their research.
The successful candidate must display evidence of excellence in and commitment to both research and teaching. Evidence of excellence in teaching will be demonstrated through teaching accomplishments, letters of reference and the teaching dossier submitted as part of the application. Evidence of excellence in research will be demonstrated by representative writing samples or publications in top ranked and field relevant academic journals, presentations at significant conferences, awards and accolades, and strong endorsements by referees of high international standing.
We seek a candidate whose research complements and enhances existing strengths in the Department of Historical Studies. The successful candidate will join a vibrant intellectual community of world-class scholars at Canada?s largest university. The Greater Toronto Area (GTA) is one of the most fascinating, diverse and ?livable? places in the world. The successful candidate will have the ability to teach a range of thematically focused courses engaging with the study of religion, contributing to the undergraduate program on the Mississauga campus, and will hold a graduate appointment at the Department for the Study of Religion on the St. George campus of the University of Toronto. Information about these two departments is available at: http://www.utm.utoronto.ca/historicalstudies and http://www.religion.utoronto.ca.
Salary will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. Applicants are invited to apply online at the following web site: https://utoronto.taleo.net/careersection/10050/jobdetail.ftl?job=1601019. Applications must be submitted by October 17, 2016, and include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, sample of academic writing such as representative articles, statement of research interests, academic transcripts, and a teaching dossier (teaching evaluations; sample syllabi, assignments and tests; descriptions of teaching strategies and innovations, etc.). The U of T application system can accommodate up to fifteen attachments per candidate profile (8MB size limit per attachment); please combine attachments into one or two files in PDF/MS Word format. Submission
guidelines can be found at: http://uoft.me/how-to-apply. Arrangements should also be made for three letters of reference, at least one of which must comment on the applicant?s teaching abilities, to be submitted by October 17, 2016 via email to the Chair at historical.studies at utoronto.ca. Referees should include the candidate?s name and ?South Asian Religions Search? in the subject line.
The University of Toronto is strongly committed to diversity within its community and especially
welcomes applications from racialized persons / persons of colour, women, Indigenous /
Aboriginal People of North America, persons with disabilities, LGBTQ persons, and others who
may contribute to the further diversification of ideas.
As part of your application, you will be asked to complete a brief Diversity Survey. This survey is
voluntary. Any information directly related to you is confidential and cannot be accessed by search committees or human resources staff. Results will be aggregated for institutional planning purposes. For more information, please see http://uoft.me/UP.
All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents
will be given priority.
