[INDOLOGY] beyond Malhotra's books
To further complicate the picture, it is not only traditional scholars in
India who are dependent upon outside funding. There was a time when Rajiv
Malhotra did not have the "us versus them" mentality. It was his funding
that actually launched Robert Thurman's ambitious project to translate and
publish the whole Tibetan Tanjur, the huge collection of ??stra texts that
were originally translated from Sanskrit into Tibetan. Thurman writes in
the Preface to the first volume of that series to be published, *The
Universal Vehicle Discourse Literature*, p. xi:
"In the late 1980s, we and the Institute moved to Columbia University in
New York, where we were able to work out an affiliation in 1988 such that I
and subsequent occupants of the newly established Jey Tsong Khapa
Professorship in Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Studies would remain formally
charged with the task of translating and publishing "the whole Tanjur," as
the *Treasury of the Buddhist Sciences*. Fundraising was slow, and the
pressing needs of the Tibetan people, whose scholars are the actively
creative intellects indispensable to our whole project, seemed more urgent
a use for whatever support people generously gave. The Institute went
somewhat onto the back burner, while we focused on developing Tibet House
US, the American institution dedicated to preserving Tibetan civilization,
founded at the request and with the gracious patronage of His Holiness the
Dalai Lama.
"Finally, in the year 2000, the founder of the Infinity Foundation in
Princeton, New Jersey, Mr. Rajiv Malhotra, saw the relevance of the *Treasury
of the Buddhist Sciences* to the recovery and presentation to the world of
ancient India's classic Buddhist heritage, and the Foundation awarded the
Institute, in affiliation with the Columbia University Center for Buddhist
Studies, a publication grant to start the actual printing. In 2001, the
Infinity Foundation joined with Tibet House US in another grant to engage
the scholarly, administrative, editorial, and design services of Dr. Thomas
Yarnall, to advance and complete the project."
I do not know what led to the change in Rajiv Malhotra's perspective.
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Fri, Aug 5, 2016 at 4:15 AM, Ram-Prasad, Chakravarthi <
c.ram-prasad at lancaster.ac.uk> wrote:
