Patrick, your more detailed elaboration of your point of enquiry supplied
many things that were missing in your thread initiating post. It is these
details that I was trying to gather through my responses to your
'na?ve-looking' question which I knew did not have the naivety  it
reflected,  in its actual background.
Now that you made the details clear, let me converse with you on those
lines.
1. Yes, at the outset , the karmak?n?a practitioner of 2016 feeling
compelled to follow the scriptural injunctions to perform the rituals and
believing that he is performing the rituals exactly the way his ancestors
or 'beginners' of the rituals performed them  is part of the general
cultural universal of ritual performance. In a purely oral society of ,say,
a tribal community, the norms of the ritual may not be perceived to be
coming from a 'scripture' or its injunctions. But pattern is the same.
Members of organized, say, semitic religions, may consider the norms to
have been 'written down' in a 'book'. Nevertheless, they too share the
feature of believing that they are re-enacting the performance of the
rituals performed by their ancestors or 'beginners' of the rituals, in
spite of the changes in the details of the performance. Just as the
contemporary 'Hindu' considers his ritual to be 'Vedic', in spite of the
changes, they too consider their rituals to be of Judaism or Christianity
in spite of the changes. This belief that present form has continuity with
or from the past one is vital to each of these cultures because identity of
each of these is anchored to this belief in continuity.
2. What makes the 'Hindu' scene more complex than this is that it has an
auto-anthropology of issues such as what a ritual is(kim karma), what are
its functions (karmaNaa kim labhate), how a praising hymn or a narrative in
a hymn is in fact an injunction to perform a ritual (arthavaada), the
spirit or  'psychological' effect (jnaana) of a ritual , the relative
significance (praadhaanya) of the performance (karma) or the spirit
(jnaana) of the ritual (i.e. can  rituals be given up if their spirit is
achieved through other means or are there no substitutes for the ritual to
get its effect ?). Different schools of Vedanta take different positions
with regard to these relative significances etc.
3. What is interesting is, not all Bhakti schools downplay the
significance of rituals. In fact, Vi?i???dvaita and Dvaita stand opposed to
Advaita in this aspect.
On Wed, Sep 21, 2016 at 9:43 AM, Michaels, Axel <michaels at asia-europe.uni-
heidelberg.de> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
