[INDOLOGY] Question on Diacritical Marks
I was going to stay out of this, but since I think some of the observations
are not headed in a one might say 'user friendly' direction, I dare to add,
for what it's worth, a few observations.
First, regarding long quotations in nagari (look, you know what that is,
right? no diacritical marks though...), take a look at
https://ia902205.us.archive.org/7/items/systemsofbuddhis029771mbp/systemsofbuddhis029771mbp.pdf
This is a book printed long ago mixing romanization and nagari; I think it
makes a bizzare impression.
Second, the idea of diacritics and/or nagari seems to overlook --although
it has been mentioned, certainly--the idea that there are those who might
be interested to read what we write who nevertheless do not know Sanskrit.
The appeal to grammatical markers like i? seems to me entirely beside the
point. No one is going to be confused by prajna or karuna, and if there is
a reason to do so one can easily add, for instance (fem.) if the point is
that a word is grammatically feminine, etc.
I have great respect for Andrew Ollett but I confess that his comments
about Chinese puzzle me: romanizing Chinese with tone marks does not help
appreciably in looking up a word; if you don't have the Chinese character,
you're almost certainly out of luck (assuming we are not talking about
multi-syllabic words, and even then) except for very common words, and even
then.... The point about Hebrew is also I think instructive: many people
read romanized Hebrew all the time in a very simplified system, without
much trouble at all, and without significant ambiguity.
I think that the discussion needs some focus: we are not talking about a
thesis on Sanskrit grammar, I suppose (I think we all understand that the
initial question was as clear as it could be without breaking confidence),
and certainly one would argue, or I would argue, that a linguist writing
for (non-Sanskrit knowing) linguists should stick to a scientific method,
but for an audience of philosophers, it should be different.
Something we have not mentioned at all in this discussion is the incredible
difficulty all of us have had, and our forebears had, in getting
'philosophers' to take non-Western philosophy seriously. Perhaps a little
consideration for the 'fear factor' of diacritical marks would not be out
of place?
sorry, my 2? seems to have grown, with inflation.... ;)
very best, Jonathan
On Tue, Sep 6, 2016 at 9:24 AM, victor davella via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
J. Silk
Leiden University
Leiden University Institute for Area Studies, LIAS
Matthias de Vrieshof 3, Room 0.05b
2311 BZ Leiden
The Netherlands
copies of my publications may be found at
http://www.buddhismandsocialjustice.com/silk_publications.html
