[INDOLOGY] "Discovering De Jong" Conference at Canterbury University, New Zealand, November 23-24 2016
Dear Colleagues,
[cid:d51cc096-3bb5-23ce-c35f-aed270644b32]
I'm delighted to announce an upcoming conference dedicated to the De Jong Collection, the archives and books of the distinguished scholar in Buddhist studies and South Asian religions Jan Willem de Jong, which was acquired by the University of Canterbury, New Zealand, in 2000 (http://library.canterbury.ac.nz/collserv/dejong.shtml).
"Discovering De Jong" will take place on November 23-24, 2016 on the University of Canterbury campus, Christchurch New Zealand.
The keynote will be given by Prof Paul Harrison (George Edwin Burnell Professor of Religious Studies, Stanford University)  entitled "Jan Willem De Jong: The Reviewer Reviewed".
Other presentations relating to aspects of the collection will be made by Joanna Condon, Simon Daisley, Elizabeth Guthrie-Higbee, Royce Wiles, Jane Buckingham, Arin Basu, Jambugahapitiya Dhammaloka,  myself, and several others.
Please contact me if you wish to make a conference contribution.
There will also be an open panel discussion about the guardianship of such collections now and for the future.
The conference dinner will be on the evening of Wednesday 23rd November.
We welcome you and your colleagues to come!  Please circulate the announcement and don't hesitate to send me any questions!
With best wishes,
Clemency
Dr Clemency Montelle
http://www.math.canterbury.ac.nz/~c.montelle/
School of Mathematics and Statistics
University of Canterbury | Te Whare Wananga o Waitaha
Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140
NEW ZEALAND
This email may be confidential and subject to legal privilege, it may
not reflect the views of the University of Canterbury, and it is not
guaranteed to be virus free. If you are not an intended recipient,
please notify the sender immediately and erase all copies of the message
and any attachments.
Please refer to http://www.canterbury.ac.nz/emaildisclaimer for more
information.
