[INDOLOGY] Indologist at Center of Sexual Harassment Mess at Berkeley
Perhaps a modest suggestion: is there a rationale for this discussion that
helps us, as scholars of Indian studies, understand our field and its
position better? With respect to issues of censorship the answer is
unequivocal: yes, this is a highly relevant issue to the field as a whole.
With regard to the behavior of individual academics, setting aside the
rights and wrongs of allegations (and by this expression I do not intend to
comment, even obliquely, on either colleague who is or was at Berkeley),
does consideration of the case(s) help us understand the situation of the
field? I think that the answer here is that it does not. Yes, as academics
many of whom teach, who intereact with others, over many of whom we may be
in positions of authority, it is essential that we be aware of issues of
abuse of power, but this is as general an issue as almost any other: there
is nothing specific to Indian studies, and therefore, it is reasonable to
conclude that we not discuss this on this particular list.
I think the wording of this particular discussion may have rubbed some
people the wrong way, if it was understood to imply that issues like sexual
harrassment and abuses of power are not important. I, speaking only for
myself, think that they are very important, but also not relevant for this
list. They _type_ of discussion, that is, its subject-matter, seems to me
quite different from that of censorship, which I think is perfectly
legitimately discussed here.
The modest suggestion, then, in the end: I tell my students that they are
free at any point to interrupt me and ask why I am discussing a certain
topic: I consider myself to have gone off track if I cannot clearly explain
to them the coherence of my discussion at any moment with the topic of the
course as a whole. Perhaps we could try to apply that reasoning here, and
think to ourselves whether the topic in question applies relevantly _to the
field of Indian studies_?
just an idea...
Jonathan
On Thu, Oct 6, 2016 at 9:05 AM, James Stewart <james.stewart at lankamail.com>
wrote:
J. Silk
Leiden University
Leiden University Institute for Area Studies, LIAS
Matthias de Vrieshof 3, Room 0.05b
2311 BZ Leiden
The Netherlands
copies of my publications may be found at
http://www.buddhismandsocialjustice.com/silk_publications.html
