[INDOLOGY] Indologist at Center of Sexual Harassment Mess at Berkeley
I have already made the suggestion that those who aspire to dedicate their
time to what they consider a substantial problem of their discipline
establish a discussion forum and deal with the matter exhaustively there.
Interested Indologists should be encouraged to subscribe.
The idea voiced that only male persons would have taken a specific stand in
this discussion shows little respect for, or even ignores, the gender
theory. This argument should vice versa also be applied on the ladies
involved. How can we really know what identities hide behind biological
features? So what can be deduced from the argument "they are all men"?
As INDOLOGY is supposed to serve scholars, they may expect that quantifying
statements made on this list be supported by evidence. There is no
scholarship without evidence. The three harrassed women do have my deepest
sympathies, but the (accused or convicted?) perpetrator was one man. One
South Asianist. At Berkeley. In the USA. With all due respect Berkeley does
indeed deserve, the local American academia must not be mistaken for the
hub of the world representing Indologists in any global sense, tempting as
it may seem for some.
Construing a significant problem for Indology on also other continents in
the world by presenting the evidence of one lone South Asianist, at
Berkeley, in the USA, takes a narrow view, is clearly at odds with
statistical data, and appears to be a bold step indeed. The globalizing and
unfounded insinuations resulting from it, putting the whole world of
Indology under general sexual harrassment suspicion, might be taken as
another reason why this discussion should in my opinion rather be
discontinued in a scholarly forum such as INDOLOGY.
One last remark. While the reporting media we have been informed about
speak of ?professors in South Asian studies?, disputants on this list have
tacitly transformed them into ?Indologists? for claiming a fundamental
moral crisis in ?our discipline?, i.e. Indology. There is however a
difference between South Asianists and Indologists, ironically brought to
the point by Sheldon Pollock: ?[...] The word, the phrase ?South Asia? was
invented in Washington D.C. at the State Department. [...] I am a professor
of South Asia Studies. I am a professor of a region that does not exist
...?. (?*Why a Library of Classical Indian Literature?**? *Jaipur
Literature Festival 2015*. *On *YouTube*, min. 42.43 ff).
It is not only because Indology in contrast continues to have a subject of
research that I feel uncomfortable with implicit identifications with South
Asianists of dubious ethical behaviour. I prefer the notion of an
Indologist for many reasons, one among them that I dislike ? and be it in
name of a South Asianist only ? becoming harnessed to the geopolitical
carriage of interests which Washington D.C. has been pursuing in an Asia
they have filleted themselves.
With this, my part in this discussion ends.
Cheers,
WS
2016-10-06 12:38 GMT+02:00 <audrey.truschke at gmail.com>:
