[INDOLOGY] McGill University: Position in South Asian Religions
Dear Colleagues,
I am very pleased to announce an open position in South Asian religions at McGill University, as described below.
Applications will be reviewed from 1 December 2016, and may be submitted online here: https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/8159
Please share this announcement widely, directing any queries to me (andrea.pinkney at mcgill.ca<mailto:andrea.pinkney at mcgill.ca>) or to Ms. Francesca Maniaci, Administrative Officer, School of Religious Studies (francesca.maniaci at mcgill.ca<mailto:francesca.maniaci at mcgill.ca>).
With best wishes,
Andrea
Andrea Marion Pinkney
Associate Professor
School of Religious Studies
McGill University
POSITION IN SOUTH ASIAN RELIGIONS
McGILL UNIVERSITY
The School of Religious Studies at McGill University, Montreal, Canada, invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position in the area of South Asian Religions at the rank of Assistant Professor, but exceptionally qualified candidates may be considered at the Associate level. We seek a dynamic colleague capable of expanding and enriching an already strong program in Asian Religions at McGill who is prepared to teach at undergraduate and graduate levels. This position calls for specialisation in the study of South Asian Religions alongside substantive engagement with the wider fields of Religious Studies and South Asian Studies, including relevant theoretical and methodological approaches.
Preference will be given to candidates who have an excellent overall research profile; research competence in at least two South Asian languages, ideally, one modern and one classical; and the ability to teach broad courses that cover South Asian religious traditions in interreligious and regional perspectives. The candidate will also be expected to contribute to graduate seminars in theory and method offered by the School of Religious Studies. The appointment is available from 1 July 2017.
The candidate is expected to have received the PhD prior to appointment. Applications should be received by 30 November 2016 to guarantee full consideration, but will be accepted until the position is filled.
For more information on the Asian Religions Area in the Faculty of Arts, visit our website: http://ara.mcgill.ca/ <http://ara.mcgill.ca/%C2%A0> ;
For further information about the School of Religious Studies, visit: http://www.mcgill.ca/religiousstudies/
Applicants should submit the following: a letter of application (addressing qualifications, research, and teaching interests); a Curriculum Vitae; relevant teaching materials; three letters of recommendation; and one representative writing sample or scholarly publication. All materials, including referees? letters of recommendation, must be submitted electronically to the Academic Jobs Online website (https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/8159).
Inquiries may be addressed to Ms. F. Maniaci, Acting Administrative Officer, School of Religious Studies (francesca.maniaci at mcgill.ca<mailto:francesca.maniaci at mcgill.ca>), or to the chair of the search committee, Professor A. M. Pinkney (andrea.pinkney at mcgill.ca<mailto:andrea.pinkney at mcgill.ca>),
McGill University is committed to diversity and equity in employment. It welcomes applications from: women, Aboriginal persons, persons with disabilities, ethnic minorities, persons of minority sexual orientation or gender identity, visible minorities, and others who may contribute to diversification. All qualified applicants are encouraged to apply; however, in accordance with Canadian immigration requirements, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.
