[INDOLOGY] Touching one's nose with the left index finger
Finger on nose is almost a universal gesture. Whenever 'finger on nose is
mentioned while describing gestures, in most of the cases, it is the index
finger which is kept in mind. That gesture could have variegated semiotics
in each of the cultures where it is used.  What the thread initiator said
he was looking for was the specific cultural connotation in the context
that he cited, Vi?van?tha Cakravartin's commentary (ca. late 17th century)
on the Bh?gavata Pur??a 10.9.7 (utt?rya gop?...).
There are two bases of context here, the verses  before and after 10.9.7.
BhP_10.09.006/1 sa?j?ta-kopa? sphurit?ru??dhara? sanda?ya dadbhir
dadhi-mantha-bh?janam
BhP_10.09.006/3 bhittv? m????rur d??ad-a?man? raho jagh?sa haiya?gavam
antara? gata?
BhP_10.09.007/1 utt?rya gop? su??ta? paya? puna? pravi?ya sa?d??ya ca
dadhy-amatrakam
BhP_10.09.007/3 bhagna? vilokya sva-sutasya karma taj jah?sa ta? c?pi na
tatra pa?yat?
Second, the cultural background of the user of the expression Vi?van?tha
Cakravartin and his period:ca. late 17th century.
Why I say period is the following:
Among the Telugu speakers, apart from the universal meaning of
"silence!" there is the meaning of intense surprise/amazement found in
expressions such as mukkuna v?l?sukunn?ru = they put (past) the finger on
the nose, meaning they were all amazed at what happened or at what they
saw/heard.
But I observed another finger on nose gesture in my previous generation, in
which the index finger moved from the tip of the nose vertically straight
upwards upto the forehead while waving the head horizontally, showing the
tongue out usually folded with its tip upwards or downwards, to communicate
the meaning (usually expressed in words immediately after removing the
tongue part of the gesture), " Oh! nno! is it not so wrong, so
inappropriate?"
This expression is no longer found used. It seems to get considered as
oldish.
So time ca. late 17th century and the region and cultural group of
Vi?van?tha Cakravartin .
On Sun, Oct 23, 2016 at 8:48 AM, rajam <rajam at earthlink.net> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
