=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_V=C4=ABra=C5=9Baivas_and_Vedas,_etc._(was:_bhakti)?=
ved?dhik?ra can be interpreted in more than one way. The aforementioned
book by Na?ju???r?dhya goes into theological details like the validity of
i??ali?gap?je vs. sth?varali?gap?je (i.e., 'our practices are just as good
as brahmin practices!').
" 'our practices are just as good as brahmin practices!')" itself shows
that the people who fought are not Brahmins. What they fought for and got
was Vedaadhikaara. Similar is the situation in the places in Telangana I
mentioned. Those from whom, I said, I heard Veda-recitations were not
Brahmins.
When I say these modern groups 'learn' , it does not mean they learn from
Brahmin Vedaadhyaapakas. They create they own lineage of gurusishyparampara
irrespective of whether the teacher is a Brahmin or not.
'Vedic'.
proliferation of 'Vedic' this-and-that-and-the-other? Even if there are
modernistic fringe groups (around Sri Aurobindo etc.) that ignore the old
rules (Aurobindo indeed wrote on the Vedas, although he was a k?yastha, not
a br?hma?a), the association of vaidikatva with br?hma?atva and social
prestige seems beyond debate.
The English word 'Vedic' being used as a qualifier can happen only in the
English knowing particularly western circles of some 'Hinduism' related
activities. There is so much happening out there beyond these where this
word or the entities qualified by it do not matter at all. Not looking at
that bigger picture is the source of this over-focus on this non-issue.
"the association of vaidikatva with br?hma?atva and social prestige seems
beyond debate."
is no argument. It is just a restatement of a claim to which sufficient
counter evidences have been provided.
Study of Indian society has gone more intricate and more nuanced than this
old obsolete understanding of the early modern studies.
On Mon, Nov 14, 2016 at 8:34 PM, Nityanand Misra <nmisra at gmail.com> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
