[INDOLOGY] 'Vedic' astrology
Thank you Bill. I will focus on the case of ISKCON which I know fairly well.
Clearly we have here a clash of worldviews, each deploying its own hermeneutical strategy. To get a little distance and detachment so that we can be clear on the hermeneutical and epistemological issues, consider various learned approaches to Judeo-Christian studies and their sacred texts. The Academy of course favors the historical-critical method, which is surely an essential, invaluable piece of the puzzle. However it may not be the whole puzzle. 
For example, leading scholars of Judaism such as James Kugel point out that traditional Hebrew Bible scholars make four initial assumptions that guide their exegesis. 1. All the highly variegated books of the Hebrew Bible ultimately present a unified message; 2. The message is didactic, i.e. it has a clear telos which is to elevate its readers; 3. The text is divinely inspired; and 4. The ultimate meaning may not be literal. 
	Given those metaphysical assumptions which a priori cannot be empirically proved or disproved, traditional Bible scholarship is often internally consistent, clever, even at times profound. On the other hand, I believe that ?sacred? scholarlship that simply ignores the historical-critical method can easily become unhinged. 
I favor the approach of early Christian historian Dale Martin at Yale, who teaches the historical-critical method, yet points out the presumption of assuming that the historical-critical method necessarily reveals the final truth of a sacred text. 
Returning to explicit Indology, in the G?t? 15.15, K???a famously states, vedai? ca sarvair aham eva vedya?. Those who take this claim seriously as a spiritual truth will naturally accept that it warrants the notion of a unified, if complex, ?Vedic? message that points to K???a as the supreme knowable fact. Again, the historical-critical method, a priori, cannot prove or disprove such an obviously metaphysical claim about K???a. If one accepts the claim, then one may feel justified in a freer use of the adjective ?Vedic.? I hasten to add that even with this sort of ?sacred' hermeneutic there are modern uses of ?Vedic? that I too find silly and indeed unwarranted by anything that I can discern as rational.
Ironically, the Bh?gavat-pur??a, perhaps the most important member of ISKCON?s canon, uses the term vaidika in the modern academic sense, and not in the general ISKCON sense. The BP almost always use vaidika to indicate conventional ?ruti in contrast to tantrika texts, taken there to mean various Vai??ava sm?ti or  ?gama texts. Indeed, ISKCON?s canonical Caitanya-carit?m?ta restricts vaidika even further to the term vaidika br?hma?a, referring to a karma-k???a ritual technocrat. So curiously key ISKCON ??stras use Vaidika in the academic, not the ISKCON, sense.
Regarding the ?pseudo-scientifc? claims of ?Vedic? or Puranic cosmography, I suggest that one seriously consider the work of the late Dr. Richard Thompson on this topic.
Best,
Howard
