[INDOLOGY] bhakti
Dear Robert,
ved?dhy?pana, in other words: traditionally, brahmins decide what the Vedas
and ?Vedic? literature are and what their meaning is.
halo, and this is associated with the br?hma?a var?a in its idealized,
mythical form (cf. BhG XVIII.42: ?amo damas tapa? ?auca?, etc.).
are in vogue in huge numbers today.
Traditionally, a potter had an exclusive right cum responsibility for the
production of pots, a liquor-maker had an exclusive right cum
responsibility for making liquor, a washer-man had an exclusive right cum
responsibility to wash cloths,  why, even a performer of a particular folk
performing art had an exclusive right cum responsibility for the
performance of the particular folk performing art.
People moving away from their traditional caste occupations (right cum
responsibility occupations) is happening for all those occupations which
are no longer givers of either a worldly benefit or a social status. Number
of Brahmin families  moving away from their Vedaadhyayana and
Vedaadhyaapana is on huge rise. Priestly Brahmins are depressed that they
are not able to get marriage alliances.
Dear Patrick,
All the usages of the adjective 'Vedic' do not indicate the same cultural
process. Academicians need to discern such differences carefully.
1.  'Vedic ' in Vedic astrology is used to distinguish it from the western
astrology. Choice of 'Vedic' in preference to 'Hindu' seems to be to avoid
a religious 'sectarian' image.
2. 'Vedic' in 'Vedic capitalism', 'Vedic socialism', 'Vedic communism' is
in fact the opposite of the process that was proposed by your thread
initiating post. Your initiating post was proposing an attempt to acquire
legitimacy to the entity described by the qualified noun by the use of the
adjective 'Vedic'. But in the case of 'Vedic capitalism', 'Vedic
socialism', 'Vedic communism' , it can not be said that '' capitalism', '
socialism', ' communism'  are not intended to get legitimacy by the use of
the adjective 'Vedic'. In fact , the attempt here is to get the image of
contemporaneity for the Vedas by adding words such as 'capitalism', '
socialism', ' communism' as qualified by the adjective 'Vedic'. Talking of
'Vedic Communism' and 'Vedic Socialism' is as old as Rahul Sankrityayan and
SA Dange.
On Wed, Nov 9, 2016 at 5:57 AM, patrick mccartney <psdmccartney at gmail.com>
wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
