[INDOLOGY] bhakti
1. Cultures mixing with each other, new mixed cultures being born out of
intercultural interactions, religious and cultural syncretisms, these
products of mixtures being named after one of the components of the
mixture are all not the special features of India.How such syncretisms are
received too varies from social group to social group. It may be called a
'good thing' like here
<http://www.tomorrowsworld.org/commentary/is-religious-syncretism-a-good-thing>.
It may not be called a 'good thing' elsewhere.
2. One model of such namings of the mixtures can be called a
river-tributary model. Even after tributaries join the main river , later
course is called with the name of the main river only. In some cases, the
cultures/traditions being given the name 'Vedic' has this feature.
3. When cultural assimilations take place using the (perceived or real)
commonalities between the two or more interacting cultures, these
commonalities, described in Indian Sanskrit knowing sections using the
word ?kav?kyat?, are described using the language of the available
doctrinal articulations. Upanishads and Vedanta are examples of such
articulations used to describe the ?kav?kyat?.
4. Viewing ancient intercultural interactions deterministically in a
(class)-conflict model, and viewing ancient cultural assimilations as
class-war averting or class-war pre-empting strategies on the part of one
of the components of admixture is a typical deductive and historical
determinist model.
5. Most of the findings of cultural mixings, or assimilations or anything
like that found in a current culture by the researchers of that current
culture may not be known to the insiders of that investigated culture. So
to theorize as if the culture insider knew the 'non-Vedic nature' of his
culture and still used the word Vedic for a prestige is to attribute
unjustifiable motives to the tradition bearer.
On Thu, Nov 10, 2016 at 4:39 AM, Luis Gonzalez-Reimann <reimann at berkeley.edu
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
