[INDOLOGY] bhakti
*mantra* period worshiping a deity was motivated by desire for outcomes?a
practice that is consequentialist as consequentialism is the view that
right procedure is justified by a good outcome.
deity was motivated by desire for outcomes" , or do you have internal
evidences within the early mantra texts for this observation of yours?
Mantras by themselves are stutis and we have both desire-expressing and
non-desire-expressing stutis. To view all  stuti as an indirect instruction
to perform (ritual) with a desire for result is the p?rvam?m?ms? way of
looking at the mantras. To view the same mantras/stutis as instructing (the
practices for) m?k?a (e.g. Br.U.--> a?vam?dha mantras are instructions to
do tapas) and as descriptions of Brahman is the uttaram?m?ms? (v?d?nta)
way. Both the ways have their foundations in the
non-upanishadic br?hma?a-?ra?yaka texts and upanishadic
br?hma?a-?ra?yaka texts respectively.
Leaving aside these two ways of *viewing, *the stuti aspect itself of the
mantras can be seen to have continuity into the stutis/st?tras/sank?rtanas with
bhakti label.These stutis/st?tras/sank?rtanas with bhakti label too have
desire-expressing and non-desire-expressing tones and expressions. The
cultural complex of which these stutis/st?tras/sank?rtanas with bhakti
label make part, has the temple rituals and domestic p?j? rituals as part
of it.Temple rituals and domestic p?j? rituals can be seen to have
continuity from the yajna rituals, just as stutis/st?tras/sank?rtanas with
bhakti label have their continuity from the stutis of the Veda mantras.To
perform such rituals with a desire for result is also a part of that
cultural complex. But to view all these texts and rituals as meaning and
meant  for moksha is what is called as Bhakti Vedanta. This view has its
continuity from uttaram?m?ms? (v?d?nta) way of looking at the Veda
mantras.To view the stutis/st?tras/sank?rtanas with bhakti label as meant
for temple rituals and domestic p?j? rituals with a desire for result has
its continuity from the p?rvam?m?ms? way of looking at the Veda mantras.
Thus from both the p?rvam?m?ms? type and uttaram?m?ms? (v?d?nta) type
perspectives, stutis/st?tras/sank?rtanas with bhakti label have a contiuity
from the stutis of the Vedas. This is what makes the stutis of the Vedas to
get viewed as the older form of or prototype of bhakti .
On Fri, Nov 4, 2016 at 8:06 PM, Shyam Ranganathan <shyamr at yorku.ca> wrote:
