=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_V=C4=81lm=C4=ABki=E2=80=99s_first_=C5=9Bloka?=
Dear David et al.,
Commentaries may have discussed it as ?r?aprayoga but if we try to take the
meta-narrative seriously, could it rather have been ... (still) "bandit's"
prayoga  (bandit with b)? At this early stage, the transformation of dacoit
Ratn?kara to V?lm?ki (see at YouTube under "Ratnakar to Valmiki" for some
modern representations of this episode) would not yet have been complete.
At least his language would still have beginners' and learner's mistakes,
and a "hypersanskritization" such as an aorist injunctive with an augment
superfluously added (which can hardly be interpreted as archaic or
primitive or colloquial).
Best, Jan
.
On Sunday, 20 November 2016, David and Nancy Reigle <dnreigle at gmail.com>
wrote:
age? In that case, no ?r?aprayoga would be required to explain the archaic
language.
wrote:
Indian tradition as ?r?aprayoga, irregular use by the seers?
wrote:
"irregularities" in epic sanskrit in his introduction..
called Sanskrit when compared with contemporary Middle Indo-Aryan but it is
a Sanskrit which continually deviates from the norms codified by Panini.
This is not because such 'aberrant' forms were pre-Paninian.  For the Epics
(and in fact only the Mahabharata) know only a handful - moreover rather
doubtful - Vedisms. ......Almost always it is metrical exigencies which
forced the poets to use a form not sanctioned by traditional grammar....the
"irregularities' are very often found at a metrically relevena position of
the stanza: "Metre surpasses grammar".
wrote:
development in the language here, but one which does not match the
available evidence.
offering alternative analyses of partly the same phrases, Jan Gonda
Aspectual function of the Rgvedic present and aorist.
to be made which edition to take as starting point: even for mere practical
reasons the Baroda critical edition is the obvious candidate to be
selected.
critical edition to give preference systematically to the recension where
most grammatical and metrical "irregularities" are found, i.e., the
Southern recension.
"polishing" in a much higher degree.
"irregularities" in the text are identical and found in a large number of
manuscripts that supposedly represent the older, pre-polishing stage, but
this is precisely what is not the case:
his study, not without problems of its own, could be redone with more
advanced statistical means and a fresh study of the evidence. On the basis
of a study of books II-IV van Daalen concludes that the Poet Valmiki wrote
mostly "correct" classical Sanskrit -- this does not necessarily always
correspond to "Paninian" sanskrit, and the poor definition of van Daalen's
"irregularities" is one of the weaknesses in his study, which could however
be "repaired" to some extent by referring to other forms of acceptable yet
not strictly Paninian sanskrit (cf. Narayana Bhatta's Apaniniyapramanata
and www.academia.edu/28515426).
line of argument (cf. Madeleine Biardeau's arguments *against* critical
editions for the epics), more realistic, than van Daalen: "There can be no
plausible original reconstructed and practically there was from the time
of, let us say, the first repetition of the text no original Ramayana"
(quoted in van Daalen's study, p. 6).
RQrPe-fIuAHuhqPByOWB2JkSw_O1x8y8-PDEuYhATfXahNfxshFInXITrKFja-
fAt9NomFBkDRIPE9veFBH6T5ZulbhxrZuBTbVBXApKOBTkFtAfF80vMoRuL3
0O5bYuNrEGtSAEAh-h5Cpi7DbjpPFD1vCm2evDQaN157gzEA1VO1kzXUfTIKCFDNagfj6FLFk-
bJamI_5nfJM=s0-d-e1-ft#https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=0B-
TN0Ek0VfGDX1RqVTJKdjBuWWs&revid=0B-TN0Ek0VfGDdVF4aXhNb1F5czA4bFhB
RzI1S2l3UitFeFBjPQ>
dnreigle at gmail.com> wrote:
?loka ever written, V?lm?ki?s first ?loka now preserved at R?m?ya?a 1.2.14,
I have had a question about it. Probably you or others have long ago
answered it. Sorry for my ignorance of the relevant material on this verse.
at the height of passion, you shall not live for very long.? (trans. Robert
P. Goldman, 1984)
and avadh?s, are aorists. Moreover, agamas has here retained its augment,
although used with m?. My understanding is that, since aorists largely fell
out of use after the Vedic period, they are not at all common in the
R?m?ya?a. So here is my question. Assuming that this is in fact V?lm?ki?s
first ?loka, would this point to an original R?m?ya?a that is considerably
older than the R?m?ya?a we now have? Could the R?m?ya?a as now extant have
been reworked, updated in language so to speak, from an earlier original?
For example, F. E. Pargiter in his detailed study, The Pur?na Text of the
Dynasties of the Kali Age (1913), found considerable evidence that in the
oldest pur??as (V?yu, Brahm???a, Matsya) the verses had been Sanskritized
from an earlier literary Prakrit, and that these Sanskrit verses had in
turn been condensed and rewritten directly in Sanskrit in some other
pur??as (Vi??u, Bh?gavata).
wrote:
 decades-long project to translate and annotate the critical edition of the
V?lm?ki R?m?ya?a, Dr. Sally Sutherland Goldman and I are happy to announce
the publication of the seventh and final volume  of the work.
VII: Uttarak???a
Sally J. Sutherland Goldman
South and Southeast Asian Studies
committee)
options or unsubscribe)
committee)
or unsubscribe)
committee)
or unsubscribe)
committee)
or unsubscribe)
committee)
unsubscribe)
