[INDOLOGY] 'Vedic' astrology
Dear Patrick,
I believe rather than simply bland, "uncritical absorption of the/a Vedic narrative,? the examples of ISKCON ?Vedic Planetarium? and ?Vedic model of universe? I mentioned earlier illustrates quite tellingly, at least in this particular instance, what the intention was. To me, it seems to be part of an ongoing negotiation of the role of Indian culture in the modern world and an alternative narrative to the one created in the Western culture, one that Indians today both love and hate. In doing so, some sought to reclaim their identities as defined by themselves and not others. 
In this particular case, if Vedic is defined historically as the Western historians and philologists do, there is no question that ?Vedic Planetarium? is a pure misnomer. There was not even any planet beside Sun and Moon mentioned explicitly in the early Vedic corpus and the Ved??gajyoti?a had no discussion of planets. The Pur??ic cosmology is a hodgepodge of ideas from various sources, both foreign and indigenous and across a long stretch of time. But this model of the universe was created in reaction to the Western model, to the one created by the Greeks, e.g. Ptolemy?s geocentric model, and eventually the development of the model of universe in Western astronomy up to the present day ? a powerful image to represent science and progress, which many today sought to align their values and belief-system to .
What ISKCON tried to achieve was to say to the readers that just like in the West one has the history of science, so does India. The proponents of the so-called ?Vedic science? suggest that not only India has science, it is a different science based on a possibly superior authority, i.e., a spiritual, all-encompassing revelation beyond human reasoning based on the ?Vedas," rather than philology and history based on fragments of the reality interpreted by humans. Of course, the arguments they constructed were practically entirely in Western terms, and the evidences they use are so methodologically and philologically unsound that most scholars do not consider them worthy of even consideration and decry them as pseudo-science. This seems to applies from more ludicrous claims such as ?Vedic astrophysics? or ?Vedic aeronautical science?, to the seemingly more benign ?Vedic mathematics? and ?Vedic astronomy?.
Bill M. Mak
Institute for the Study of the Ancient World (ISAW)
New York University
15 East 84th Street
New York, NY 10028
US
Institute for Research in Humanities, Kyoto University
Yoshidahonmachi, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501
Japan
?606-8501 ??????????
???????????
Tel:+81-75-753-6961
Fax:+81-75-753-6903
copies of my publications may be found at:
http://www.billmak.com
