=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_V=C4=ABra=C5=9Baivas_and_Vedas,_etc.?=
holds no position of special intellectual and cultural prestige in Indian
society (this is impossible), and (2) that persons from the br?hma?a var?a
have not been the traditional custodians of the Vedic heritage (I think
that this is impossible too).
custodians of the Vedic heritage (I think that this is impossible too).
You are absolutely right about #2. If you remember, I said *traditionally*
that is how it was. I also said that all castes were traditionally
custodians of their respective caste occupations.
If #1 does not mean that the brahmin community is the only one holding a
special position of prestige and it dies not mean that to get a prestige,
to be associated with brahminness is the only way and that is why people
resort to Vedic etc or that is the only reason why people resort to Vedic
etc., then #1 should have no objections.
If these are the (only) two antarvaakyas ( with #1 having only the meanings
as specified above) implied in your mahaavaakya, I am sorry to have
misunderstood your vaakya.
Much before these recent posts in this thread, in some other context, while
discussing the MN Srinivas and his Sanskritization, one of the western -
born members of the list was asking me off the list  ( to make the point
 that the  brahmin community is not the only one holding a special position
of prestige and imitated by other castes for that reason), "why only a few
specific castes claimed the name Brahmana for their castes , why others
including the 'upper' castes such as Reddies and Kammas in the Telugu
region or many other castes considered to be with lower prestige did not
ask for such names or features? "
There are claims for Kshatriyahood and Vaishyahood across the castes. Many
castes and tribes got Kshatriyaized too. In fact, I mentioned this in one
of my recent posts on military ranks too. The name ending Setti which is
typical of 'Vaishyas' is used by many other castes.
Many castes without such claims for the names of any of the traivarNika
varNas hold a high prestige.
Many castes considered not to hold such high prestige do not make claims
 for the names of any of the traivarNika varNas.
In any case, I am sorry that I did not realize that you were just saying
that Brahmins traditionally deciding what is Veda or Vedic was not
unnatural or objectionable. (How can not any fieldwork based culture-
researcher know that all traditional lore , all traditional oral texts are
preserved in all the  traditional societies  at least in India, if not all
over the world, by a certain specific community that takes up or is
expected to preserve those traditional oral texts ?)
On Tue, Nov 15, 2016 at 9:37 PM, Robert Zydenbos <zydenbos at uni-muenchen.de>
wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
