[INDOLOGY] bhakti
Thanks Robert for bringing in the Veerashaiva Veda learning fact into the
discussion. I wanted to mention that. I was looking for references such as
( in Kannada: ?sth?navidv?n M.G. Na?ju???r?dhya, _V?ra?aiva Ved?dhik?ra
Vijaya_. Mysore: Sree Panchacharya Electric Press, 1st ed. 1969, 2nd ed.
1981. 85 pp.).
that you mentioned. Now, we have it here, thanks to your post now.
I heard many Virashaiva boys here in Telangana, where I stay now and in
Rayalaseema(southern Andhra Pradesh ) where I used to stay earlier, recite
Vedas melodiously with authentic confident voices.
You were right in thinking that things are different with Arya Samaj in
north India. In north India, Arya Samaj is much bigger than in south
India.  Here in Hyderabad where I stay now, we have a close to north India
intensity of Arya Samaj.
You wanted to know which other organizations I had in mind.
You already have the Virashaivas from the premodern context.  Still many
contemporary sources on Virashaivas describe them as opposed to the Vedas.
Thanks for providing reference to establish that they are not and they
learn the Vedas and fought to retain the right to learn when that right was
challenged.
Gayatri Parivar, Svaadhyaaya, Sri Aurobindo organizations, Chinmaya Mission
etc. Most of the 'modern' 'Hindu' organizations do not recognize the
exclusive right of Brahmins over Veda learning. Post-Independent Indian
governments and courts have been repeatedly questioning the exclusive right
of Brahmins over Veda learning or priestly activities in temples.
indications of quality linked to brahmins. Throughout southern India, one
finds restaurants bearing the sign 'Brahmins Hotel' (or 'Udupi Hotel',
because M?dhva brahmins from the Udupi region have the reputation ? in my
view fully justified ? of being good cooks).
within south India, this applies only to the vegetarian hotels. Majority of
the population in the parts where Udupi Brahmin hotels do exist are
non-vegetarians. Even within south India, Kerala is predominantly
non-vegetarian. Tamil Nadu has Iyer hotels. Kerala has Arya Bhavans. But in
most parts of Kerala, the number of vegetarian hotels is negligibly
small. In Maharashtra, in Pune where I stayed for some years, vegetarian
hotels have the label "Pure Veg" without any Brahmin tag. Gujarat is
predominantly vegetarian. Udupi Brahmin tag is not used, not required
there. In coastal Andhra Pradesh, there are a huge number of vegetarian
hotels which do not carry the Brahmin tag in their sign Boards. There is
now a big Pure Veg Dhaba culture in Hyderabad. None of the sign boards of
these dhabas carries the Brahmin tag.
Brahmin tag is not used, not required, nor does it sell for any other goods
or services not part of 'Hindu' 'religious' 'rituals'. Life of Indians is
enormously much beyond 'Hindu' 'religious' 'rituals'. In the case of good
and services related to all those aspects beyond Life of Indians is
enormously much beyond 'Hindu' 'religious' 'rituals' ,  In all these cases,
Brahmin is not equal to good. It can be said that in all these cases,
Brahmin is equal to not good also.
Even within the goods and services related 'Hindu' 'religious' 'rituals' ,
grocery used in the rituals is sold in a shop without a Brahmin tag. Milk
is sold exclusively by a non-Brahmin milk-vendor. Flowers are sold by the
non-Brahmin flower-vendor. In a marriage is instrumental music is played by
non-Brahmin music player and so on. In all these cases, Brahmin is not
equal to good. It can be said that in all these cases, Brahmin is equal to
not good also.
Matters where 'Vedic' = 'brahmin' = 'good' are a miniscule part of the life
of Indians. Even here, this association of 'quality', ' authenticity' etc.
 with Brahmins is very much part of association of 'quality' ,'
authenticity'  etc. with a certain caste in the case of the activities that
have been traditionally the right cum responsibility of that caste.
Traditional activities like Veda-learning and Veda-teaching etc. have been
no more the exclusive rights cum responsibilities of Brahmins than the
different other activities were exclusive rights cum responsibilities of
different other castes.
With the life style changes among Indians , certain traditional
caste-occupations  which are paying as per the modern life style have been
retained by the caste members , certain other traditional caste-occupations
which are not paying nor status-giving as per the modern life style have
not  been retained by the caste members.  It is in this context that I
mentioned Brahmins leaving their traditional caste occupation.
Today, for something to be 'good' in India, it need not be 'Brahmin' nor
'Vedic'.
In the case of 'Hindu' 'religious' 'rituals', 'Brahmin' could be 'good'.
But even there the use of the word 'Vedic' (Vaidik, Vaidika the local
equivalents of this English word ) is known only to the 'educated'.
On Mon, Nov 14, 2016 at 5:05 AM, Robert Zydenbos <zydenbos at uni-muenchen.de>
wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
