[INDOLOGY] Ear
Dear Prof. Corinna Wessels-Mevissen,
Yes, what you observed as 'rotating while standing' is aatmapradakshiNa
namaskaara only.
But it is not done as a substitute for pradakshiNA which is usually
translated as 'circumambulation' (I suspect that the translation is
borrowed from some ritual-describing Latin-origin term used in some
religion outside Hinduism-Buddhism complex. An online dictionary gives the
reference as  "Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon"
(Herman Melville).)
pradakshiNA is a clockwise rotation around a sanctum sanctorum or temple or
a sacred hill or any other such sacred object.
In north India the word parikramA is used more often in this sense.
This is a form of 'paying respect', 'expressing love of the intense
inseparability' ( A circle is formed when an object is pulled perpetually
by a center ) , dependence etc.
There is an occult semiotics too associated with rotating an object around
another object. In this aspect, the rotated object is believed to collect
positive or negative supernatural power occupying / possessing the central
object. For example, this is done as an evil eye removing magic in which
the evil eye removing material is rotated around the 'evil eye affected'
person and the rotation is believed to collect the (evil spirit of) evil
eye and store it in itself. Throwing away this material is believed to send
away the (evil spirit of) evil eye. If this semiotics is applied to
pradakshiNaa the act is seen as collecting the 'positive' power occupying /
possessing the central object, a prANa pratishThita or svayambhU deity in
the sanctum sanctorum or temple or occupying / possessing a sacred hill or
any other such sacred object by the circumambulating person.
AtmapradakshiNA usually is associated with the reciting or chanting the
following mantra:
???? ???? ? ?????? ????????? ?????? ?? ???? ???? ?????????? ????????? ???
??? ?
This shows that the associated belief is rotation around oneself (Atma =
self) is a pApa-buster. Again, the 'occult' semiotics here is that the
spirit possessed object when rotates /made to rotate around itself, the
spirit is flushed out of the object.
Rolling on the floor is a different story.
On Wed, Nov 2, 2016 at 1:27 AM, Corinna Wessels-Mevissen via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
