[INDOLOGY] CFP: South Asian Book History Workshop, March 9-10 2017, Delhi
Dear colleagues,
Please find below (and attached as a pdf file) a call for papers for
"Turning the Page: New Directions in South Asian Book History" to be held
on March 9-10, 2017, at the University of Chicago Center in Delhi. The aim
of the conference is to give young researchers at South Asian
institutions-- including phd students and early-career faculty in colleges
and universities across India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh--
an opportunity to share their work and receive feedback from peers. We hope
to have a substantial contingent of scholars working on manuscript culture
in South Asian languages (as well as print studies), so please circulate to
colleagues and students that you think might be interested.
Best,
Tyler Williams
University of Chicago
Call for papers:
*Turning the Page: New Directions in South Asian Book History*
A two-day workshop at the University of Chicago Center in Delhi.
March 9-10, 2017
In March 2017, the University of Chicago Center in Delhi will host a
two-day workshop on South Asian book history organized jointly by members
of the Dept. of South Asian Languages and Civilizations, University of
Chicago, and Prof. Abhijit Gupta, Dept. of English, Jadavpur University,
Kolkata. We invite early career scholars and researchers based in South
Asia, as well as South Asian doctoral students currently completing their
PhDs to submit proposals for the workshop. A presentation may be on any
aspect of book history, from any period and in any language, as long as it
pertains to the region of South Asia. Presentations that connect the book
history of South Asia to other geographical and cultural regions are also
encouraged.
Over the past two decades, book history and print culture studies has
become established as one of the most productive and dynamic fields of
research within South Asian Studies, mirroring the rise of the History of
the Book as a discipline in the global academy. South Asian book history
has helped shape debates about the nature of the book, manuscript and print
cultures, and the histories of writing and reading not only in the Indian
subcontinent but also with regard to other regions and cultures.  This
workshop will bring together young researchers and established scholars
working in both pre-modern and modern book history to share their work,
assess the state of the discipline, and plot a course for future
cooperative projects.
*Format: *
This two-day workshop will provide an opportunity for scholars to present
their work and receive feedback from other participants. Individual
presentations will last 30 minutes, followed by 15 minutes for discussion.
Renowned South Asian bibliographer and book historian Graham Shaw will give
the keynote address on the evening of March 9th. Presenting participants
will receive domestic round-trip travel and two nights of accommodation in
Delhi, as well as meals for the duration of the conference.
*Proposals:*
Proposals should be submitted no later than *25th November 2016*, and
should include:
1)     An abstract of no more than 500 words outlining your research
presentation.
2)     A current curriculum vitae.
3)     A completed contact information form, available at the end of this
document or at:
http://home.uchicago.edu/~twwilliams/tww_uchicago/cfp_turning_page.pdf
Please email these materials to Ishani Palandurkar at ishanip at uchicago.edu
with ?Turning the Page Proposal? in the subject line.
Proposals may also be sent via mail to the following address:
University of Chicago Center
Attn: Ishani Palandurkar
DLF Capitol Point
Baba Kharak Singh Marg
New Delhi, India 110001
