[INDOLOGY] 'Vedic' astrology
On Nov 16, 2016, at 9:40 AM, Howard Resnick <hr at ivs.edu> wrote:
Kirfel?s two works, Die Kosmographie der Inder (1920) and Das Pur??a vom Weltgeb?ude (1954) remain the standard works on the subject of Indian cosmography and cosmology. Though dated, I do not think they have been superseded and scholars on this list should be familiar with them. Sadakata has provided some important updates in his two books in Japanese but a truly scholarly work in English on the topic has yet to emerge. Has any of Thompson?s works been reviewed? Did he have anything new to add? I do not want to sound unreasonably dismissive, but there is a long line of self-proclaimed Vedic scientists who try to convince the public that just because they have a PhD in mathematics, astrophysics or any of the ?hard? sciences, they will be irrefutably right in all other fields in the humanities and social sciences. If I have a PhD in Indology, I would not write a book on brain science and put my PhD on the book cover. I cannot imagine why anyone who wants to be taken seriously would do that. This reminds me of an embarrassing occasion at the last World Sanskrit Conference in Bangkok where a speaker in the scientific panel presented a paper on the science of ?Buddhist yoga? and bewildered the audience with fantastic formulae of astrophysics. But the topics of certain scientists trying to prove that there are theories of relativity or quantum physics in the Vedas or that the vim?nas are evidences for Indian?s ancient space technology are old stories which I do not need to reiterate here (http://www.deccanherald.com/content/452573/iisc-research-debunked-long-ago.html <http://www.deccanherald.com/content/452573/iisc-research-debunked-long-ago.html>)
If you have come across any serious works on Vedic astronomy or even Vedic astrology which you have read and believe to merit scholarly consideration, please share here or with me offline.
Bill M. Mak
Institute for the Study of the Ancient World (ISAW)
New York University
15 East 84th Street
New York, NY 10028
US
Institute for Research in Humanities, Kyoto University
Yoshidahonmachi, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501
Japan
?606-8501 ??????????
???????????
Tel:+81-75-753-6961
Fax:+81-75-753-6903
copies of my publications may be found at:
http://www.billmak.com
