From ambapradeep at gmail.com  Sat May  4 07:44:57 2019
From: ambapradeep at gmail.com (Amba Kulkarni)
Date: Sat, 04 May 19 13:14:57 +0530
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Fwd: [LOGIC] Research Fellowship in Digital Humanities, Paris (France) & Oxford (England), Deadline: 14 Jun 2019
In-Reply-To: <CAOy-tFS4JHOjefj6xEu0YaeYLEaecszGccJMEOoskuXzeCk9DQ@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <CAFffahC92CZJKErNezZBqaM4iUHELuoFm9hLNYqZW9Kw3+O5LQ@mail.gmail.com>

For information.
Apologies for cross posting


-- Amba Kulkarni

---------- Forwarded message ---------
From:[LOGIC] Mailing List <logic at math.uni-bonn.de>
Date: Sat 4 May, 2019, 1:03 PM
Subject: [LOGIC] Research Fellowship in Digital Humanities, Paris (France)
& Oxford (England), Deadline: 14 Jun 2019
To:



http://www.culturesofknowledge.org/?p=10822


Paris-Oxford Research Fellowship in Digital Humanities

As part of a collaboration between Oxford and the Sorbonne, we are
delighted to announce the new call for applications for a three-year fully
funded fellowship open to students wishing to pursue doctoral studies in
the history of science, in mathematical sciences, in digital humanities,
or in computer science. Details of the fellowship are set out below, both
in English and in French.

Paris-Oxford Research Fellowship in Digital Humanities

Recent progress in digital humanities has transformed research in the
history of science: large quantities of data, the collation of which would
formerly have required time-consuming visits to libraries and archives,
have been made available; manuscript and book collections are accessible
online; and investigations across a range of related resources become ever
easier. In consequence, historical investigations can be contextualized
better, studies of networks taken to a new level, and analysis conducted
across increasingly large quantities of data and metadata.

Applications are open currently for a fellowship that will offer the
successful doctoral student the opportunity to undertake research over a
period of three years at two of the most prestigious institutions in
Europe: Sorbonne University in Paris and the University of Oxford.
Applicants should have a background in one or more of the following four
disciplines: digital humanities, history of science, mathematics, or
computer science. They should demonstrate experience of historical study
alongside evident ability in the field of digital humanities or data
sciences.

Thesis topics might combine any area of the history of science with an
approach in digital humanities. In particular, proposals exploring
innovative digital or computer-based approaches for research in the
history of mathematical sciences or on early modern correspondence will be
welcome, as will those involving investigation into how the development of
digital analysis, research, and visualization tools can contribute to new
research on scientific and/or epistolary corpuses.

This programme forms part of a scientific collaboration between the
Sorbonne?s Faculty of Science and Engineering and the Faculty of History
at the University of Oxford. The successful doctoral student will work
within the ?Digital Humanities? team at the Institut des sciences du
calcul et des donn?es (ISCD) of Sorbonne University (Paris, France) and
will conduct a period of research at the University of Oxford (UK), either
within the framework of the Cultures of Knowledge research project/Early
Modern Letters Online [EMLO] at the Faculty of History, or of the Centre
for the History of Science, Medicine, and Technology, or of the
Mathematical Institute. The student will benefit from a three-year funding
grant from the Faculty of Science and Engineering of Sorbonne University.

Further information regarding this opportunity is available from Alexandre
Guilbaud (alexandre.guilbaud at sorbonne-universite.fr) or Miranda Lewis
(miranda.lewis at history.ox.ac.uk).

To apply, please send a copy of your CV and an outline of your planned
research project to Alexandre Guilbaud
(alexandre.guilbaud at sorbonne-universite.fr) before the closing date of 14
June 2019.

Bourse de recherche Paris-Oxford en humanit?s num?riques

Les progr?s r?cents accomplis dans les humanit?s num?riques ont transform?
la recherche dans le domaine de l?histoire des sciences : des quantit?s
importantes de donn?es, dont le rassemblement aurait autrefois demand? de
nombreuses et longues visites de biblioth?ques et d?archives, ont ?t?
mises ? disposition, des collections de manuscrits et de livres sont
accessibles en ligne, et les recherches ? travers un ?ventail de
ressources connexes n?ont jamais ?t? aussi faciles. En cons?quence, les
recherches historiques peuvent ?tre mieux contextualis?es, des ?tudes de
r?seaux amen?es ? un autre niveau, l?analyse peut ?tre r?alis?e ? travers
des quantit?s de plus en plus grandes de donn?es et de m?tadonn?es.

Les candidatures sont ouvertes pour une allocation de recherche qui
offrira au doctorant retenu l?opportunit? d?entreprendre des recherches
sur une p?riode de trois ans au sein de deux des institutions les plus
prestigieuses d?Europe : Sorbonne Universit? ? Paris et l?Universit?
d?Oxford. Les candidats devront avoir une formation dans une ou plus des
quatre disciplines suivantes : les humanit?s num?riques, l?histoire des
sciences, les math?matiques ou l?informatique. Ils devront d?montrer
qu?ils poss?dent une exp?rience des ?tudes historiques ainsi que des
comp?tences manifestes dans le domaine des humanit?s num?riques ou des
sciences des donn?es.

Les sujets pourront associer n?importe quel domaine de l?histoire des
sciences avec une approche en humanit?s num?riques. En particulier, les
propositions explorant des approches num?riques ou informatiques
innovantes pour des recherches en histoire des sciences math?matiques ou
des recherches sur les correspondances de l??re moderne seront bienvenues,
de m?me que les probl?matiques s?int?ressant ? la fa?on dont le
d?veloppement d?outils d?analyse, de recherche de visualisation num?riques
peut contribuer ? de nouvelles recherches sur les corpus scientifiques
et/ou ?pistolaires.

Ce programme s?inscrit dans le cadre d?une collaboration scientifique
entre la Facult? des Sciences et Ing?nierie de l?Universit? de la Sorbonne
et la Facult? d?Histoire de l?Universit? d?Oxford. Le candidat s?lectionn?
travaillera au sein de l??quipe ?Humanit?s num?riques? ? l?Institut des
sciences du calcul et des donn?es (ISCD) de Sorbonne Universit? (Paris,
France) et effectuera une p?riode de recherche ? l?Universit? d?Oxford
(Royaume-Uni), soit dans le cadre du projet Cultures of Knowledge/Early
Modern Letters Online [EMLO] ? la Facult? d?Histoire, ou du Centre for the
History of Science, Medicine, and Technology, ou de l?Institut de
Math?matiques. Le doctorant b?n?ficiera d?une allocation doctorale de
trois ans financ?e par la Facult? des Sciences et Ing?nierie de Sorbonne
Universit?.

De plus amples renseignements concernant cette opportunit? sont
disponibles aupr?s d?Alexandre Guilbaud
(alexandre.guilbaud at sorbonne-universite.fr) ou de Miranda Lewis
(miranda.lewis at history.ox.ac.uk).

Pour poser votre candidature, veuillez envoyer une copie de votre CV et un
r?sum? du projet de recherche envisag? ? Alexandre Guilbaud
(alexandre.guilbaud at sorbonne-universite.fr) avant la date du 14 Juin 2019.
--
[LOGIC] mailing list
http://www.dvmlg.de/mailingliste.html
Archive: http://www.illc.uva.nl/LogicList/

provided by a collaboration of the DVMLG, the Maths Departments in Bonn and
Hamburg, and the ILLC at the Universiteit van Amsterdam


-- 

? ?? ?????: ?????? ????? ??????: ll
Let noble thoughts come to us from every side.
- Rig Veda, I-89-i.

Professor & Head
Department of Sanskrit Studies
University of Hyderabad
Prof. C.R. Rao Road
Hyderabad-500 046

(91) 040 23133802(off)

http://scl.samsaadhanii.in <http://sanskrit.uohyd.ac.in/faculty/amba>
http://sanskrit.uohyd.ac.in/scl
http://tdil-dc.in/scl <http://sanskrit.uohyd.ac.in/scl>
http://sanskrit.uohyd.ac.in/faculty/amba


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20190504/9bccc43a/attachment.htm>

