From koenraad.elst at gmail.com  Fri Jun 28 03:17:13 2019
From: koenraad.elst at gmail.com (Koenraad Elst)
Date: Fri, 28 Jun 19 05:17:13 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] AAIS
In-Reply-To: <CAPAr6cH97h0ykF10x2KTRbcrA=ho9S4XrPii3AZGDP6NtQ9jdQ@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <CALOY_zF57L5_c2RfkgL-hAqSgbWNJ9sRpLVjh6fMquLuYxN+9A@mail.gmail.com>

Dear Prof. Sauthoff & listfolk,

Interesting: "Rather than continue this conversation with politically
charged attacks (...) I would like to" engage in politically charged
attacks on an unnamed "founding board member of AAIS".

That's a very convenient kind of attack, for there is no way of
countering this attack. Look, I don't know this man, nor the whole
board of this AAIS, I don't know how white their souls are, and that
is not the point. Anyone has a right to be heard, and when I see the
names of august Indologists  like Arvind Sharma or Jefferey Long, I
very much doubt the judgment of those who clamour for banning an AAIS
announcement. Even if this allegation were true, it would be no worse
than any of the times that I myself have been the target of "efforts
to shut down academic freedom and integrity", and that consistently
failed to make me call for censorship or a form of repression against
them, or "deplatforming" as it is now called. There is no reason for
banning or stonewalling this AAIS just as there never was any reason
for me to demand anything similar against dissenters, not even the
despotic secularists & socialists who had gone out of their way to
smother my own voice.

The answer to a bad conference is a better conference. In 2014, I was
among those participants of the European Conference of South Asian
Studies in Z?rich who signed a petition for freedom of expression
piloted by, I believe, Laurie Patton and our own Dominik Wujastyk, and
spefically against India's pro-censorship and anti-hate-speech law IPC
295A, on the occasion of a censorship-oriented Hindutva (in this case
it is correct to call it that, Dinanath Batra being an RSS man) move
against Wendy Doniger's  'Alternative History of the Hindus' (see
https://www.academia.edu/36329232/In_favour_of_freedom_of_expression).
I whole-heartedly support freedom of expression, just as much for my
adversaries as for my friends. (This attitude is rarely reciprocated,
e.g. at that same conference, my own contribution was at the very last
moment censored from the congress proceedings of my panel.) If you
don't like a book, the only good answer is a better book, i.c. Vishal
Agarwal's counter-book detailing the numerous errors in Doniger's
unjustly famous book.

It amused me to see how a number of people whom I had gotten to know
for their active or passive attempts to get me banned from other
forums, e.g. from the RISA-list (successfully, though in violation of
the list charter); now suddenly stood up for freedom, as this time it
was one of their own who was targeted. But it amused me even more that
all these anti-Hindutva heroes were standing up to a law that had now
been used by the Hindutva crowd, but that was actually (not just
enacted in order to protect Islam from Hindu criticism, but esp.) a
model for the "hate speech" codes that are now terrorizing academe in
the West, and that I knew many of them were supporting. Indeed, Art.
295A IPC was a model hate speech law, and its British colonial
motivation is well worth remembering when surveying the clamour
against "hate speech" today. The Brits justified it by saying that
unlike themselves, the natives were not mature enough to deal with
criticism without going overboard. "Hate speech" laws are despotic by
nature. Decolonization implies abolishing them. Call me an
abolitionist.

So, we have no need of being protected against this AAIS conference,
much less against the very mention of it. It represents one viewpoint,
and adherents of another viewpoint are welcome to express their own,
indeed they are already doing so. And to engage with the AAIS people
in order to make them see the supposed error of their ways. Indeed,
knowing those Hindu diaspora circles rather well, I make bold I can
get you, Patricia, invited to the conference and given time & the mike
to explain to them that they are wrong. They call that the Purva
Paksha, the counter-viewpoint, an integral part of the formation of
their own opinion.
.
In fact, reading on, I notice that you have had a similar idea yourself:

> I have invited that same board member to my talks at several conferences, they have not come to my talks or responded in any way.<

OK, I take it upon myself to make communication between this AAIS
fellow and yourself possible. You can contact me off-list on
koenraad.elst at gmail.com. I greatly appreciate your willingness to talk
it out, as contrasting with the SJW decision that condescending to any
communication with "Hindutva" ogres is useless.


> One of the founding board members of AAIS is also on the board of Nalanda University in Bihar, India. I taught at Nalanda several years ago, helping to found the School of Buddhist Studies, Philosophy, and Comparative Religion. (?) After my contract was not renewed and I was given no reason, I had to argue with the university about my final pay (which I have never received).<

The Nalanda university was (re-) founded by a number of Leftist
intellectuals, with as poster boy the Nobel winner Amartya Sen. Its
selection of foreign professors was as partisan as what was to happen
under the BJP a few years later. But in a shameless show of
Congressite corruption, Nalanda was mismanaged so badly that it
accepted a take-over by the State. But then the BJP came to power,....

So you were not paid. Well, that sounds familiar. Last December, a
number of list members including myself participated in a conference
in Sanchi University (founded as the BJP's answer to Nalanda). We had
been promised a reimbursement but then the BJP government was ousted
by Congress in state elections, so we got a new Education minister, a
new VC, and since then, no reimbursement. We have no direct
information, but the Indian media have reported that corrupt
Congressites had immediately started making up for the hungry years in
the opposition. Oh, and the University Board had also okayed my on
nomination as Visiting Professor; but that too has come to naught
since this political change. So, I am sorry for your loss, but I also
know from experience (and not just the incident related) that, well,
deplatforming happens, broken promises happen, plain stealing happens,
even regardless of ideology.


>  I woke up to an email from a journalist asking me if I had any response to Ram Madhav's tweet about my course.<

My God, we must be twin souls. Me too, I had a clash with Ram Madhav.
After having been deplatformed many times by the Left, it was this
Hindutva bigwig's turn to deplatform me. (He is the main addressee of
this open letter about the incident:
https://koenraadelst.blogspot.com/2014/12/letter-to-organizers-of-india-ideas.html)


>
> I will also note that this board member joined the Nalanda board after an RSS-linked administration was put into place.<

