From lavanyavemsani at gmail.com  Thu Jun 20 01:59:50 2019
From: lavanyavemsani at gmail.com (Lavanya Vemsani)
Date: Wed, 19 Jun 19 21:59:50 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Call for Papers AAIS first Annual conference
Message-ID: <D8347818-C9BF-44B1-91CF-A5590FC045F7@gmail.com>

Hello All, 
Attached below is the CFP for AAIS conference. Please plan to join us for the First Annual Conference. 
Please circulate the CFP widely. 
Thank you. 
Lavanya 


Call for Papers for the Inaugural Conference of 
American Academy of Indic Studies


The American Academy Of Indic Studies (AAIS) is a scholarly, non-political, non-religious, and non-profit academy for scholars and students interested in Indic civilization. We work with the objective to promote study and research of Indic Civilization in Academia. More info at www.AAIndicStudies.org 

For its inaugural conference, AAIS invites proposals for scholarly presentations on the issues of ?Indic Civilization and Postcolonialism?. We invite proposals from a broad category of academic disciplines to submit their research in the processes and endeavors of postcolonialism of Indic wisdom and traditions.

The objective of this conference is to explore the influences of the ?Occident? and ?Modernity? on the Indic intellectual culture and society at large. It will be highly valuable to evaluate those influences and investigate attempts towards drafting a long term agenda towards postcolonialism. An inquiry into the structural, procedural, or attitudinal obstacles to better incorporate postcolonialism is the prime intent under consideration. The plan is to appraise what you think would be the ideal arrangement for systematic investigation, publication, and dialogue over the coming decade, in order to involve mainstream academia in the process of postcolonialism. 

The deadline for abstract submissions is Oct 15th 
Conference Date: Feb 20-22, 2020

Conference Venue: Dallas, Texas in affiliation with https://www.naaas.org 

Conference Proceedings: To be announced.

Lavanya Vemsani 
Ph.D (History) Ph.D. (Religious Studies)
Professor, Dept. of Social Sciences
Shawnee State University 
President, Ohio Academy of History 
Co-founder, American Academy of Indic Studies 
Editor-in-Chief 
American Journal of Indic Studies
Managing Editor
International Journal of Indic Religions 
Associate Editor 
-Canadian Journal of History 
-Air Force Journal of Indo-Pacific Affairs
http://www.shawnee.edu/academics/social-sciences/faculty/lvemsani.aspx



-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20190619/bd1a496f/attachment.htm>

