From jpeterson at isfas.uni-kiel.de  Wed Aug 21 10:53:52 2019
From: jpeterson at isfas.uni-kiel.de (John Peterson)
Date: Wed, 21 Aug 19 12:53:52 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Doctoral position in socio-linguistic methods and material culture
Message-ID: <97c768860f5ab4ce0fd5d0c85e464ca3@isfas.uni-kiel.de>

 (apologies for cross-postings!) 

JOB ANNOUNCEMENT 

DOCTORAL POSITION IN sOCIO-LINGUISTIC METHODS AND MATERIAL CULTURE 

THE NEW CLUSTER ROOTS ? SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND CULTURAL CONNECTIVITY
IN PAST SOCIETIES in the frame of the German Excellence Initiative
explores social, environmental, and cultural processes that have
substantially shaped past human development (and which are still active
today). Research is organized in six research units (i.e. subclusters)
covering six foci: (1) Environmental hazards and impacts; (2) Dietary
intake and disease; (3) Knowledge production, technology, and
innovation; (4) Population agglomeration and urbanisation; (5) Social
differentiation and inequalities; and (6) Conflict and conciliation. The
ROOTS 'Reflective Turn' will enable cross-disciplinary dialogue and
enquiries within and between research foci, providing an overarching
theoretical frame. 

Research Associates and PhD students participate in the ROOTS Young
Academy. The ROOTS Young Academy brings together young experts from an
array of disciplines, which support ROOTS research with innovative
research ideas. The Young Academy provides young researchers with
excellent conditions for a successful career and personal development. 

We invite applications for the 

DOCTORAL POSITION ?SOCIO-LINGUISTIC METHODS AND MATERIAL CULTURE? 

to begin as early as possible 

PROFILE: Historical Linguistics, Methods of Quantitative Linguistics,
Sociolinguistics 

The successful candidate will conduct work on linguistic aspects of
social stratification in NORTH INDIA from a historical perspective, with
special reference to the EASTERN GANGES BASIN. She/He will work in close
cooperation with scholars from both general linguistics and archaeology,
taking not only sociolinguistic aspects of historical language
stratification into account but also aspects of material culture.
Research will address these aspects in different social and economic
groups from this region, e.g. hunter and gatherer societies (or social
groups which until recently fell within this group and have since
changed to a more sedentary lifestyle), farming communities, different
castes and their languages / dialects from a historical perspective,
etc. 

Integration into the research agenda of 'ROOTS of social inequality' is
expected as well as coopera-tion with other subclusters. 

REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS: Eligible candidates must hold an outstanding
university degree (MA or equivalent) in General Linguistics,
Indo-European Linguistics or in a related linguistic field with a focus
on historical and/or socio-linguistics. The successful candidate will
have a keen interest in historical linguistics and will be familiar with
sociolinguistic methodology and various quantitative methods in
linguistics. Publications in historical linguistic and complementary
expertise in historical sociolinguistics and/or in the area of language
contact will be an asset. Knowledge of a modern South Asian language is
desirable and/or the willingness to obtain a basic knowledge of spoken
and written Hindi within the first six months of the employment. 

Salary will be at 65% (currently 25,16 h/week) of level TV-L 13 of the
federal wage agreement scheme (Tarifvertrag der L?nder). The term is
fixed for a period of 3,5 years (42 months). 

Kiel University is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to
increasing the proportion of female scientists in research and teaching,
and strongly encourages female applicants. Women will be given
preference in case of equal suitability, competence, and professional
performance. The University is also committed to the employment of
disabled person, and such individuals will be accorded preference if
suitable. 

Applications by people with a migration background are particularly
welcome. 

Please address your application (cover letter; CV (including list of
publications); the proposed doctoral project (max. 1500 words),
including a brief summary, state of the art, a concise project
description, and a work schedule; and the name of two references with
contact information; a copy (in .pdf format) of your master-thesis or
proof of equivalent qualification; certificates of academic degrees) as
ONE SINGLE .PDF DOCUMENT until 1ST OCTOBER 2019 to: 

Search Committee 

Speaker Prof. Dr. Johannes M?ller, 

Cluster of Excellence ROOTS, 

Kiel University, 

Leibnizstra?e 3, 24118 Kiel, 

Germany 

via e-mail (application at roots.uni-kiel.de) 

Please refrain from submitting application photos. 

For additional information, please contact: 

Prof. Dr. John Peterson peterson at isfas.uni-kiel.de, +49 431 880-2414 

-- 
John Peterson
 Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft (ISFAS)
 Christian-Albrechts-Universit?t zu Kiel
 Olshausenstra?e 40
 D-24098 Kiel
 Germany

 Tel.: (+49) (0)431-880 2414
 Fax: (+49) (0)431-880 7405

 Homepage:
http://www.isfas.uni-kiel.de/de/linguistik/mitarbeitende/john-peterson

 Project on the languages of South Asia:
 http://www.isfas.uni-kiel.de/de/linguistik/efprojects

 "There's no present like the time."


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20190821/6fa14f75/attachment.htm>

