conference announcement
Dear Indologists.
I would like to announce the next incarnation of the South Asia Language
Analysis (SALA) Roundtable, to be held at the University of Iowa, June 21-23,
2002. This annual small conference generally atttracts scholars in modern
Indic languages, but also has a regular smattering of Sanskrit-based papers.
Because I am one of the co-organizers this year, I encourage more than the
usual number of submissions for papers on Sanskrit grammar, linguistics,
sociolinguistics, etc. Please inform your colleagues of this.
Thanks,
Fred Smith
     South Asian Language Analysis Roundtable (SALA)
                   June 21-23, 2002
                   University of Iowa
                   Iowa City, Iowa, U.S.A
Sessions: Theoretical linguistics and South Asian languages: syntax,
phonology, morphology, semantics, sociolinguistics, psycholinguists
Language Teaching
Uses of computers in teaching and research; on line resources
Sanskrit, including Paninian and historical linguistics,and spoken Sanskrit
Languages and sociolinguistics of ancient India; Indus Valley inscriptions
Indigenous and endangered languages of South Asia
Film and language (a screening of an Indian film is planned)
Individual papers and panels invited
Abstracts should be no longer than 1 page, with one additional page for
references and examples. Send 1 copy of the abstract to:
           SALA Abstracts
           Department of Linguistics
           University of Iowa, 570 English-Philosophy Building
           Iowa City, Iowa 52242 USA    email: linguistics at uiowa.edu
Include your complete mailing address, institutional affiliation and email
address. The deadline is March 1, 2002. Abstracts may be submitted by e-mail
as PDF files, Word, MSWord, Nisus, WordPerfect, and RTF attachments.
Address inquiries to:
Alice Davison (alice-davison at uiowa.edu)
Frederick Smith (frederick-smith at uiowa.edu)
Frederick M. Smith
Associate Professor of Sanskrit and Classical Indian Religion
School of Religion                    Dept. of Asian Languages
                              & Literature
314 Gilmore Hall                              681 Phillips Hall
University of Iowa                    University of Iowa
Iowa City, IA  52242  U.S.A.          Iowa City, IA  52242  U.S.A.
        + 319-335-2178 (O)      + 319-338-7193 (H)
               + 319-353-2207 (Fax)
                    frederick-smith at uiowa.edu
"Insanity is doing the same old thing, the same old way, while expecting
different results." Albert Einstein
