From J.L.Brockington at ED.AC.UK  Tue Apr 23 15:41:47 2002
From: J.L.Brockington at ED.AC.UK (John Brockington)
Date: Tue, 23 Apr 02 16:41:47 +0100
Subject: temporary post at Edinburgh
Message-ID: <161227070932.23782.13055768005823212794.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Colleagues,

First of all, my apologies that this will not be relevant to all of you,
because of distance.

The reason for it is that I shall be on sabbatical next academic year (from
October 1 for nine months) and that, following the award to me of a
Leverhulme Research Fellowship, there is the assurance of funds to pay for a
replacement post during my absence.  The administrative details still have
to be sorted out but, in view of the passage of time, I thought that this
informal notification would be useful.  Would you please pass the
information on to anyone you think might be interested?  Details about
salary and employment conditions and the like (including the closing date
for applications) will be posted in the next few days (hopefully within a
week) at <http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk>.  I will add below the basic description
of what we are looking for in terms of the teaching involved; I have given
it separately so that you can print it out or forward it readily.

With all good wishes
and thanks

Yours

John Brockington


Professor J. L. Brockington
Secretary General, International Association of Sanskrit Studies

Sanskrit, School of Asian Studies
7 Buccleuch Place
Edinburgh   EH8 9LW        U.K.

tel:  +131 650 4174
fax: +131 651 1258



THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH

School of Asian Studies: Temporary Lectureship in Sanskrit section

Applications are invited for a temporary lectureship in the Sanskrit section
of the School of Asian Studies for the first nine months (three terms) of
the academic year 2002-3, during which Professor John Brockington will be on
research leave.

The Sanskrit section consists of two posts, whose holders between them
provide a full Honours degree in Sanskrit, joint Honours degrees with Greek,
Latin and Linguistics, and contribute substantially to the Religious Studies
degrees of the Faculty of Divinity, teaching Hinduism and Buddhism at
Honours level, as well as teaching courses in Indian Civilisation (1st
level) and Indian Religion and Philosophy (2nd level).  Professor
Brockington is primarily responsible for the the two general courses and for
Hinduism Honours, though contributing also to the language teaching.

These two general courses form part of the first two years of both Sanskrit
Honours and Religious Studies Honours but they are also open to students
following other curricula.  They are therefore planned as general survey
courses, on a broadly historical basis (but also covering the fields of
literature, art and architecture, religion and philosophy), and they require
no knowledge of Sanskrit from the students; the period covered by both is
from earliest times to the 18th century.  Since the appointee will be
teaching these two courses and Hinduism Honours, (s)he should have a general
competence in ancient Indian culture, as well as a more specific interest in
Hinduism.

The appointment will be made at the bottom of the current lecturer scale.
Intending applicants are welcome to contact Professor Brockington
(J.L.Brockington at ed.ac.uk) for further details of what the teaching
involves.




