job advert
Although the Far East, Africa and the Middle East are mentioned, I don't
see that a historian specializing in South Asia couldn't apply for this.
LANCASTER UNIVERSITY
HISTORY DEPARTMENT
Lecturer in History: Further Particulars
Applications are invited for a full-time permanent lectureship in History.
Applicants should have research and teaching interests in 20th-century
world history. The appointment will take effect from 1 September 2002 or
as soon as possible thereafter.  It will be made at an appropriate point
on the Lecturer A scale (currently ?20,470-24,435).  Two copies of a
letter of application, detailing research and teaching experiences, and of
a curriculum vitae, including the names of three academic referees, should
reach the Director of Personnel Services, Lancaster University, Bailrigg,
Lancaster, LA1 4YW, United Kingdom, by Friday 3 May 2002.  Overseas
applicants need only send one copy. It would be helpful if all those
applying could where possible give an e-mail address.  Please quote
reference A639 on all correspondence.
Informal inquiries may be made to the Head of Department, Prof. E.J.Evans
(E.Evans at lancaster.ac.uk)(01524-592558), or by post to the History
Department, Lancaster University, Lancaster, LA1 4YG.
Those selected for an initial short list will be invited in the week after
the closing date to send examples of their written work, whether published
or unpublished, such as a chapter or article.  Those subsequently called
for interview will be asked to make a presentation of 20 minutes outlining
their research interests to members of the History department.
Interviews are likely to be held in the week 3-7 June 2002.
Full terms and conditions of appointment will be made available to the
successful candidate: a summary appears at
http://www.lancs.ac.uk/users/personnl/geninfo.htm.
THE POST
This appointment indicates the Department's continuing commitment to
research and teaching in the modern history of the non-western world. It
provides an ideal opportunity for historians in the early stages of their
careers.
Research:
? The position is open to scholars with research interest in world history
in the 20th century. Expertise in the Far East or in Africa or in the
Middle East would be an advantage.
? The person appointed must be research-active, and must be able to
demonstrate high quality of research by reference to such indicators as: a
PhD completed or nearing completion; research articles or monographs
either published or in press; contributions to research conferences;
successful applications for research funding and/or research scholarships.
Teaching:
? An ability and willingness to teach a whole-year Part II undergraduate
course on the 20th century, with a predominant focus outside Europe and
the U.S.A., is an immediate requirement of the successful candidate.  Such
a course could have a dominant area focus or might offer broader
perspectives in comparative and/or world history. Short-listed candidates
will be expected to produce an initial course sketch.
? In the first year of appointment, the successful candidate will be
required to conduct tutorials in support of an existing whole-year Part I
course on the modern history of Europe after 1870.  A continued commitment
to Part I teaching is required. In subsequent years, however, it is likely
that this teaching will be on a comparative course concerned with British
imperial history and the history of the American West.
? There is a need to supervise a small number of third-year undergraduate
dissertations.
? In due course, a source-based, final-year, 'special subject', which is
likely to derive from the successful candidate's research specialism, will
be expected.
? The opportunities for teaching at postgraduate level will include the
supervision of postgraduate students and may also involve contributions to
the teaching of one-term MA modules.
 Administration:
? This is a large department, and, as such, generates a wide range of
administrative duties in the support of both undergraduate and
postgraduate admissions and teaching, and also research activity. The
successful applicant would be expected to shoulder a share of departmental
administrative burdens, although these would be lighter than the norm in
the early years of appointment.
THE HISTORY DEPARTMENT
The person appointed would be joining a History Department and a Faculty
committed to high quality research and teaching.
? This is, by British standards, a large history department.  By October
2002 there will be 22 academic staff (two part-time), comprising 5
professors, 2 readers, 11 senior lecturers and 4 lecturers.
? This distribution is indicative of the high reputation of the Department
inside and outside the University.  The Department obtained a '4A' in the
last two Research Assessment Exercises, and it intends to build upon that
achievement.  Strategies are in place to develop further the Department's
research culture and to access research funds.  The research activities of
the Department embrace several areas.  Chronologically they embrace
ancient, medieval, early modern, and modern history across a wide
geographical area. There are also thematic and methodological threads
which link groups of colleagues working on conceptually related themes.
? High-quality teaching at undergraduate and postgraduate level is
characteristic of the Department. The Department was awarded the grade of
'excellent' in its Teaching Quality Assessment.  Several members of staff
have received teaching prizes. The Department admits the largest number of
undergraduate students in the University, with exacting entry
requirements. Over 50 undergraduate courses are offered. Altogether about
700 students take History courses.  The postgraduate school is also large,
with over 100 postgraduate students studying for Diploma, MA and research
degrees.
? The Department is a prominent member of the Faculty of Arts and
Humanities, which includes American Studies, English, European Languages
and Cultures, Theatre, Music, and Art.  There are also research and
teaching connections with departments in other faculties, such as Politics
and Religious Studies, and with several inter-disciplinary units such as
the Institute for Cultural Research, Women's Studies, the Ruskin
Programme, and the Centre for the Study of Environmental Change.
? The History Department has a number of close links with other
Departments and  Research Centres, including the Institute for Cultural
Research, the Women's Studies Centre and the Department of American
Studies. These links include shared research and teaching interests. The
person appointed to this post in Cultural History would therefore expect
to find a congenial research and teaching culture which embraces a range
of interdisciplinary perspectives.
? For further details about the Department, its members and its
activities, please consult the webpage at
http://www.lancs.ac.uk/users/history/index.htm.
