temporary post at Edinburgh
Dear Colleagues.
I provide below a revised version of the information about this post that I
posted quite some time ago.  This now includes information about how to
apply, as well as the closing date.  My apologies that the internal
bureaucracy in Edinburgh delayed its appearance so much.  Please note the
Vacancy Reference Number  311435 -- all applications must quote this and be
channelled through Personnel Office to be considered for the post
Yours
John Brockington
Professor J. L. Brockington
Secretary General, International Association of Sanskrit Studies
Sanskrit, School of Asian Studies
7 Buccleuch Place
Edinburgh   EH8 9LW        U.K.
tel:  +131 650 4174
fax: +131 651 1258
School of Asian Studies (Sanskrit)
Temporary Lectureship in Sanskrit Studies
The School of Asian Studies seeks to appoint a temporary lecturer in
Sanskrit Studies for a nine-month period, beginning 1 October 2002.
This post is primarily to supply replacement teaching for a member of staff
on Sabbatical Leave.  You will teach two general courses in both Sanskrit
Honours, and Religious Studies Honours as well as a Hinduism Honours Degree
course.  You will also be asked to provide any other support which may be
required.   You will have a  PhD in an appropriate field by the appointment
date, have very good knowledge of pre-colonial Indian Culture and an
advanced knowledge of Hinduism in its various forms.   You will demonstrate
your ability to relate to staff and students at all levels, be a team
player, and show willingness to take responsibility.
This post is  Full-Time, fixed-term (9 months).  Appointment will be made at
the lower end of the Lecturer A Scale (?20,470 - ?24,435).
Intending applicants are welcome to contact Professor Brockington
<(J.L.Brockington at ed.ac.uk> for further details of what the teaching
involves.
Application Procedure:
Please complete and return the application form plus SIX copies of your
Curriculum Vitae along with the original of the Equal Opportunities
Monitoring Form to: Recruitment, The Personnel Office, 9-16 Chambers Street,
Edinburgh EH8 9T13 or apply on-line at Jobs at ed.ac.uk  by the closing date of
21 June 2002
Applicants should arrange for two references to be sent directly to Prof.
John Brockington, S.A.S.(Sanskrit), 7 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh EH8 9LW
by the same date. We cannot guarantee to consider late applications.
These particulars are issued by the Personnel Office, 9-16 Chambers Street,
Edinburgh EH11 1HT. They are intended to represent an accurate description
of the duties at the time of writing, although this accuracy cannot be
guaranteed. The University reserves the right to vary these particulars or
make no appointment at all. Neither in part or in whole do these particulars
formpart of any contract between the University and any individual
