Sangam Tamil artefacts with Brahmi inscriptions
Dear Colleagues,
        I received today from Dr N. Kannan the following message, of which I am
forwarding some relevant parts. Dr Kannan and the Tamil Heritage
Foundation are making available digital images of new, sensational
discoveries of ancient Tamil artefacts partly going back to Sangam
times, many containing long Brahmi inscriptions. For the context of
these discoveries, I would like to refer to R. Nagaswamy's book "Roman
Karur" (Madras 1995), on the cover of which is depicted one of the gold
rings (with mithuna) now illustrated at this site. I have thanked Mr
Kannan for the great service The Tamil Heritage Foundation is doing to
scholarship. At the same time, I have stressed the importance of having
these objects examined by scientists in laboratories with high
credentials to make certain that the objects are genuine and to date
them more exactly.
        With best regards, AP
You are invited to view our webpages
Dear Prof.Parpola:
Greetings from Germany and from Tamil Heritage Foundation
<http://www.tamil-heritage.org>
We are a non-political, non-governmental organization present in the
internet since November 8, 2002. We are interested in the digital
preservation of ancient Tamil manuscripts in India and elsewhere. We do
feature sections that deal with the antiquity of Dravidian civilization.
In such an effort we have opened a section at
http://www.tamil-heritage.org/monument/oodu/sangkam.html
One of the main feature of this section is the clay tablets of Sangam
period. I found them at Perur (near Coimbatore) in a religious monastry
cum Arts College. I discussed about these clay tablets with Tamilnadu
archeologists and other scholars.
.....
Yours truely,
N.Kannan PhD
?
Narayanan Kannan Ph.D
Director
Tamil Heritage Foundation
http://www.tamil-heritage.org
Geleener Strasse 23
71034 Boeblingen
Germany
Homepage: http://nkannan0.tripod.com
eMail: nkannan at t-online.de, nkannan at freenet.de
Telephone: +49 7031 632403
Fax: +49 7031 286737
Mobile: +49 7031 1604821285
?
