Forwarding a Call for Papers - Please Distribute
Hello,
I'm forwarding this call for papers on behalf Madhu Kishwar.  Please
respond to her directly with any questions.
All the best,
Christian
Call for Papers
The Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), in collaboration
with India International Centre, will host a regional conference of the
International Association of the History of Religions (IAHR) in New Delhi
from December 18-21, 2003.  Last date for submission of abstracts: December
15, 2002.  Final date for confirmation of accepted proposals: January 31,
2003.
The dates of the conference have been shifted from December 11-14, 2003 to
December 18-21, 2003, in response to requests from several participants.
The conference aims to encourage rigorous secular studies of religious
traditions in India: Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, Jainism, Buddhism,
Christianity, Islam and Sikhism, including their various sects and
branches.  Furthermore, in order to promote the study of religions in India
as a careful secular discipline, the conference hopes to establish a
process for bringing together, on a regular basis, scholars in India who
are working in the field of religion.
Topics might include, but are not limited to:  1) studies of traditional
religious texts with a special focus on notions of the common or public
good; ideal forms of gender and familiar relations; theories of justice and
political authority; and relations between deities and mortals, rulers and
ruled, or nature and humans; 2) the interrelationships among religions
theologies, canons, philosophies, practices, and folk beliefs; 3)
historical and contemporary studies of growth or decay of syncretic
traditions in religious texts and practices; the role and function of
pilgrimage centres, as well as the management of religious institutions;
and the rise, decline, and renewal of shramanic traditions within Indic
civilisation; 4) the politics of conversion in history or in contemporary
India; and the limits of religions authority and the role of dissenters and
outsiders; 5) the impact of nationalism on beliefs and practices; Gandhi's
religion; and Hindu-Muslim relations; 6) special methodological concerns in
the study of Indic religions; and 7) the contributions of Indic religions
to cosmological speculation in 20th century science.
Please see our website for proposal submission, registration, programme,
accommodation, and contact information: www.indicreligions.com
Or email: madhukishwar at indicreligions.com or madhuk at csdsdelhi.org
Sincerely,
Madhu Kishwar
Convenor
Professors T. N. Madan and Robert Thurman
Co-Chairs
Christian Lee Novetzke
Assistant Professor                                     820 Williams Hall,
UPenn
South Asia Studies                                      36th and Spruce Streets
University of Pennsylvania                              Philadelphia, PA
19104-6305
                                                         Tel: (215) 898-7475
Webpage:
<http://www.sas.upenn.edu/~cln/index.html>www.sas.upenn.edu/~cln/index.html
Christian Lee Novetzke
Assistant Professor                                     820 Williams Hall,
UPenn
South Asia Studies                                      36th and Spruce Streets
University of Pennsylvania                              Philadelphia, PA
19104-6305
                                                         Tel: (215) 898-7475
Webpage:
<http://www.sas.upenn.edu/~cln/index.html>www.sas.upenn.edu/~cln/index.html
