Buddhism as a Kenyan heresy
Well, another tangent on a tangent from S. Guha:
At least we know now,  where this comes from.
At 06:31 PM 11/7/2002 -0500, S. Guha  wrote:
"Herr" Witzel was not uspet at all about our common ancestors.
Instead,  he has written, in the intro chapter of  the book mentioned in
his original email:
"Wie wir nun aufgrund von genetischen Untersuchungen wissen, stammen alle
nun lebenden Menschen von einer Mutter in Afrika ("African Eve") ab, deren
mitochondrisches DNA wir alle in uns tragen. Ebenso haben wir einen nicht
unbedingt gleichzeitigen Stammvater, der sich aufgrund von Mutationen im
Y-Chromosom nachweisen laesst. Bekanntlich ist etwa vor 50.-75.000 Jahren
eine Gruppe von anscheinend nur 2.000-10.000 dieser neuen Menschen ueber
den Nahen Osten nach Europa und ueber Suedarabien oder den damals trockenen
Persischen Golf nach Indien eingewandert, von wo sie bis nach Ostasien und
Australien gelangten."
Second, the "irrelevant information"  was necessary to dispel some wrong
notions (e.g. on N.Iranian).
Apparently it still has not yet helped to inform the historian Guha well
enough, for :
The complex social and religious  INDIAN milieu (in Bihar) has been
referred to several times in earlier emails. Closer study advised.
As Prof. Guha will know, this  is easily visible e.g. in the older
Upanisads (see summary in Olivelle's Up. transl., or in more detail in
OpMin 2):
Gandhara and Madra to Videha.
However, trade extended much beyond  that. The Balhika  (Bactria) name is
attested from the Atharvaveda onwards.
See Persica 9 (1980).
Trade in fact seems to have extended even to the Altai and beyond, see the
recent paper by Y. Vasilkov (in Russian only) on the finds of Indian-made
bronze mirrors and the old Indian silk shirt, found in Saka etc.graves
there (400 BCE--).
No one has recorded --like Herodotos-- what they may have talked about at
their caravan stops.
evidence.
This was not said (about boundaries of tradition). Re-reading advised.
(And Nepal). And, who doubted that? Re-reading advised.
So says Prof. Guha. ---  Still, lack of background information; as for "no
bearing", a study of the (Kosala-)Videha social situation is re-advised
(summary in OpMin 2).
And, see additional notes above.
Hope this helps.
Cheers, MW
