[INDOLOGY] Toronto Symposium in honor of Alexis Sanderson,	March 26-28, 2015
Dear colleagues,
I am happy to announce the following event to be held at the  
University of Toronto:
Shaivism and the Tantric Traditions. A Symposium in Honour of Alexis G.
J. S. Sanderson, March 26-28, 2015.
The academic study of "Tantrism" has blossomed in recent decades. Once  
dismissed as marginal, or unworthy of serious attention, we now  
understand the study of Asia's Hindu, Buddhist, and Jain esoteric or  
tantric religious traditions to be integral to the religious and  
cultural landscapes of medieval South, Southeast, Central and East  
Asia. This shift is reshaping the historiography of medieval India is  
in no small measure due to the major contributions of Alexis  
Sanderson, Spalding Professor of Eastern Religions and Ethics at  
Oxford University. The symposium, to be held at the University of
Toronto, with Sanderson in attendance, seeks to honour and engage with  
his scholarship on the eve of his retirement.
For the complete program, please visit:
www.sareligionuoft.ca/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/SandersonSymposium.pdf
Conveners: Srilata Raman (University of Toronto and Shaman Hatley  
(Concordia University)
Venue: Croft Chapter House, University College, University of Toronto
The event is sponsored by:
The Department for the Study of Religion, University of Toronto (UofT)
All Souls College, University of Oxford
University College, UofT
The Centre for South Asian Civilizations, UofT Mississauga
The Centre for South Asian Studies, UofT
Brill Publishers, Leiden, The Netherlands
For further information please contact Eric Steinschneider at  
eric.steinschneider at mail.utoronto.ca.
With warm regards,
Christoph
Christoph Emmrich
Associate Professor, Buddhist Studies
Chair, Numata Program UofT/McMaster
University of Toronto
http://www.religion.utoronto.ca/people/faculty/christoph-emmrich/
http://www.obwg-sshrc-uoft.ca
Department for the Study of Religion
University of Toronto, 170 St. George Street
Jackman Humanities Building, Room 303
Toronto, Ontario M5R 2M8, Canada
+416.978.6463 (o), +416.978.1610 (f)
Private:
18 Claxton Boulevard
Toronto, Ontario, M6C 1L8 Canada
+416.546.3407 (h), +416.317.2662 (c)
christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca
