[INDOLOGY] Satirical criticism in Sanskrit literature and	philosophy?
On satire in the Indian vernacular languages, there is also this recent volume (reference from Indologica):
http://indologica.de/drupal/?q=node/2214
Horstmann, Monika [u.a.] [Hrsg.]:
Indian Satire in the Period of First Modernity / ed. by Monika Horstmann and Heidi Pauwels. - Wiesbaden : Harrassowitz, 2012. - X, 242 S. : Ill. - (Khoj ; 9)
(...)
Satire reveals fault lines and incongruities between ideal and practice. Satirical discourse may be independent or invade and parody literary genres. It unmasks, ridicules and thereby deconstructs evil and hypocrisy to reconstruct honesty and reason, and at its farthest end may amount to moral utopia. The volume brings together essays on satire in the Indian vernaculars and in painting, mainly from the period of first modernity (ca. mid-fifteenth to mid-eighteenth century). These are framed by a contribution on the more ancient Tamil Jain satire and two essays on colonial satire. The volume edited by Monika Horstmann and Heidi Pauwels brings together essays on satire in the Indian vernaculars and in painting, mainly from the period of first modernity (ca. mid-fifteenth to mid-eighteenth century). These are framed by a contribution on the more ancient Tamil Jain satire and two essays on colonial satire. Among the contributing researchers are Purshottam Agrawal, France Bhattacharya, Ludwig Habighorst, Hans Harder, Monika Horstmann, Hephzibah Israel, Rohini Mokashi-Punekar, Anne E. Monius, Christina Oesterheld, and Heidi Pauwels. [Verlagsinformation]
Inhalt
Notes on Contributors. vii
Transcription and Style. ix
Monika Horstmann and Heidi Pauwels:
Introduction. 1
Anne E. Monius:
Jain Satire and Religious Identity in Tamil-Speaking Literary Culture. 11
Purushottam Agrawal:
Who Was the European Kab?r? 29
Heidi Pauwels:
Whose Satire? Gorakhn?th Confronts Krishna in Kanh?vat. 35
France Bhattacharya:
Satire in Pre-Colonial Bengali Literature: ?iva, an Object of Revilement and Praise. 65
Rohini Mokashi-Punekar:
The Bh?ruds of Ekn?th: Performance, Humour and Satire. 79
Monika Horstmann:
Approaching Sant Satire. 97
Ludwig V. Habighorst:
