cohorts, and share one's current research with the field. From senior  
scholars to graduate students, ACSAA symposia are one of the primary  
ways ACSAA members gather and support one another, share ideas with a  
group of like-minded colleagues, and participate in the ACSAA community.
For ACSAA XVII, we invite proposals for individual papers and  
pre-formed panels (4 papers of 20 min each, or experimental panel  
formats, such as PechaKucha style presentations, not to exceed 60 min)  
that reflect original and/or new research in South and Southeast Asian  
art history. 2015 marks ACSAA?s 50th anniversary and thus proposals  
that reflect on the historiography of the discipline are encouraged.  
Abstracts should reference ties to existing bodies of literature.  
Preference will be given to proposals from individuals who did NOT  
present full-length papers at ACSAA XVI in order to give more members  
the opportunity to present. However, all members are welcome to  
propose experimental panel formats and/or ideas for round-table  
discussions. All presenters and panel chairs must be ACSAA members in  
good standing.
Individual papers: Please submit a 250-word abstract & 1-page CV.
Panel Proposals: Please submit 250-word abstracts for panel concept  
and each paper, along with 1-page CV
for panel chair and each presenter.
Submit all materials and inquiries to: acsaa2015 at gmail.com
Timeline:
? April 2, 2015 Proposals due
? May 2015 Submissions notified
? July 2015 Symposium details announced to Membership
Selection Committee:
? Deepali Dewan, Royal Ontario Museum (colonial and modern visual  
culture, photography studies)
? Christoph Emmrich, University of Toronto (religious studies in  
Nepal, Burma, and Tamil worlds)
? Sarah Fee, Royal Ontario Museum (textiles of the eastern hemisphere,  
Indian Ocean trade)
? Lisa Golombek, Royal Ontario Museum (Islamic architecture and ceramics)
? Katherine Hacker, University of British Columbia (contemporary art  
and visual practice)
? Kajri Jain, University of Toronto (new media, visual studies,  
contemporary art)
? Ali Kazimi, York University (film studies, diaspora studies)
? Heather M.-L. Miller, University of Toronto (archaeology,  
anthropology, material culture studies)
? Karin Ruehrdanz, Royal Ontario Museum (Islamic painting)
? Emma Natalya Stein, PhD Candidate, Yale University (premodern South  
and Southeast Asian art and architecture)
ACSAA 2015 is organized by Deepali Dewan (deepalid at rom.on.ca) with the  
assistance of Ph.D. Candidate Aruna Panday (acsaa2015 at gmail.com) and  
programming staff at the Royal Ontario Museum.
Christoph Emmrich
Associate Professor, Buddhist Studies
Chair, Numata Program UofT/McMaster
University of Toronto
http://www.religion.utoronto.ca/people/faculty/christoph-emmrich/
http://www.obwg-sshrc-uoft.ca
Department for the Study of Religion
University of Toronto, 170 St. George Street
Jackman Humanities Building, Room 303
Toronto, Ontario M5R 2M8, Canada
+416.978.6463 (o), +416.978.1610 (f)
Private:
18 Claxton Boulevard
Toronto, Ontario, M6C 1L8 Canada
+416.546.3407 (h), +416.317.2662 (c)
christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca
