[INDOLOGY] two questions
At least for the second item, I may have a possible suggestion. It is possible you may have a dance style being referred to by the term agam??rtha which seems to have undergone some changes going from Tamil into Sanskrit either due to different forms of hypercorrection or possible transcription errors.  The source word in the Tamil tradition is akam??rkkam (transliterated in Tamil Lexicon style) which is a hybrid made up of Tamil akam and Sanskrit m??rga. If one were to transliterate it based on pronunciation, it could be transliterated as aham??rga or agam??rga. (The classical Tamil text, the Akan??????????u (transliterated in Tamil Lexicon style) is variously transliterated as the Ahan??????????u and the Agan??????????u.) The Bharat??r???ava of Nandike??vara transliterates this as aham??rga. (See pp. 34 and 137) in the attachment. In the same attachment, Mah??k??la is said to be invoked at the entrance to the stage during the first performance or installation of the stage (pp. 472-474). 
South Indian Inscriptions vol. 23, inscription no. 306 transliterates it as agam??rgga.
Was the ascetic from the Tamil country? What is the date of the text?
Regards,
Palaniappan
Sent: Mon, Feb 16, 2015 6:05 am
[INDOLOGY] two questions
Dear all,  
In preparing the editio princeps of the so called Wright Chronicle, a Chronicle in Nepali translated by Daniel Wright in 1877, we (Manik Bajracharya and me) came across two apparently ??aiva phrases which do not make much sense to us:  
   This ascetic built another house near the place, invoked Svatantra-m??lam??rti-??rddh??mn??ya and continued to perform the daily worship   of Pa??upatin??tha   
 The ascetic, too, caused the t????????amantra together with Mah??k??lokta-agam??rtha-n???tyal??l??-prasann??rtha to be inscribed on the parasol, and this unprecedented parasol was then offered to Pa??upatin??tha. 
Can anybody help us in understanding it (better)?  
Best, 
Axel Michaels 
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info
