[INDOLOGY] Siddha <->JIvanmukta
Robert Goodding has generously made his dissertation on the J?vanmuktiviveka available at http://www.robgoodd.com/.
Joel
On Apr 12, 2015, at 4:38 PM, Patrick Olivelle wrote:
With regard to "siddha", there is interesting evidence from a tradition far different from the "religious", and that is Kau?ilya's Artha??stra. There the term is used frequently with regard to monetary matters and bookkeeping, but within a religious context we have both siddha used alone and in the compound siddhat?pasa. In these usages, the reference is to a religious virtuoso who is capable of, or believed capable of, doing extraordinary things. See, for example, Artha??stra: 1.11.16; 1.12.22; 1.21.24; 4.3.13, 25, 44; 4.4.3; 5.1.3; 5.2.39, 41.
For j?vanmukta, from a Advaita and quasi-yoga perspective, see Vidy?ra?ya's J?vanmuktiviveda, newly edited and translated by Robert Gooding, available, I think, through the service that publishes dissertations.
Best,
Patrick
On Apr 12, 2015, at 3:38 PM, Nagaraj Paturi <nagarajpaturi at gmail.com<mailto:nagarajpaturi at gmail.com>> wrote:
I agree with Prof. Mathew Kapstein.
The word Siddha has several meanings in several contexts.
The term JIvanmukta too has a huge shades of meaning and a wide varieties of discussion.
There are very small number of occasions the two terms can turn almost synonymous to each other.
Siddha : 1. The one who has achieved one of the ashTa siddhis. 2. One of the (usually seven) devata jatis. 3. A respectable member of the Tamil siddha tradition. 4. A guru of the Shaiva particularly Vira shaiva tradition 5. In the modern theosophical tradition, the one translated into English as a Master. The list goes on.
JIvanmukta : I shall continue in my next post.
Prof.Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad-500044
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
http://listinfo.indology.info
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
http://listinfo.indology.info
