[INDOLOGY] article wanted
Dear John,
I don't have the volume at hand here at home, so cannot check it down to the comma, but basically this reference seems accurate --- except that I believe the article was published in Indonesian. The volume Sadur was published by the EFEO branch in Jakarta during my tenure there, in collaboration with the commercial publisher KPG. I can easily obtain a scan of the published version, and probably likewise easily obtain a file of the English original if, as I expect, the latter as such remains unpublished.
I presume you are aware of the following, which is presented as part 2 of the article published in Sadur?
  Worsley, Peter. 2006. ?Cosmopolitan vernacular culture and illustrations of the R?ma story at Ca??i Loro Jonggrang, Prambanan. Part 2: The marriage of the crown prince and the succession in polygamous royal households.? In Anamorphoses: hommage ? Jacques Dumar?ay, edited by Henri Chambert-Loir and Bruno Dagens, 227?42. Paris: Les Indes savantes.
Best wishes,
Arlo Griffiths
?cole fran?aise d'Extr?me-Orient
[INDOLOGY] article wanted
    Dear colleagues,
    Does anyone have access to the journal with the article noted below
    (page numbers regrettably unknown), which I cannot track down
    anywhere in Britain.  I would very much appreciate firstly
    confirmation of the accuracy of the reference and secondly, if
    possible, a PDF of the article.
      Worsley, Peter
          2009:
          ?Cosmopolitan vernacular culture and illustrations of the R?ma
          story at Ca??i Loro Jonggrong, Prambanan?, in Sadur:
            Sejarah Terjemahan di Indonesis dan Malaysia,
            ed. by Henri Chambert-Loir (Jakarta: Kepustakaan Populer
            Gramedia).
    John Brockington
    Professor J. L. Brockington
Fellow, Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies
Emeritus Professor of Sanskrit, University of Edinburgh
Vice President, International Association of Sanskrit Studies
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe) 		 	   		  
