[INDOLOGY] Anukramanis - warning - mentions Talageri in passing
Dear Dean,
Anukramanis contain all the information vaidikas might want to know about
the Vedic
hymns  they are learning and transmitting (rsi, devata and chandas of hymns
and stanzas), except information about their ritual application.
Information from the anukramanis is integrated into the recitations of
Rgvedins, in Sayana's commentaries and in the Brhaddevata.
In turn, the sources on which the anukramani-authors based themselves may
have been Brahmanas and now lost Brahmana-like traditions.
Jan Gonda (H.I.L. vol. 1) Vedic Literature Wiesbaden 1975 would be as usual
a good starting point: factual and
conceptual basics with bibliographic references to relevant publications in
the west and in India up to the early seventies.
See pp 34-35 in a section mainly dealing with the Rgveda:
"The anukramanis[80], though not belonging to the vedangas proper, cannot be
separated from these auxiliary sciences. These succinct versified indexes?
Anuvakanukramani, Arsanukramani[81] and three others[82]?provide us with
lists of rsis, metres, deities, sections of the Rgveda and (the
Chandanukramani)
the numbers of the stanzas of the hymns[83]. Belonging to the last
centuries of
the Vedic period (? 5th-3rd cent. B.C.) they are attributed to Saunaka
except
the more recent and systematic prose sutra-work called Sarvanukramani, a
"General Index" (? 350 B.C.), which, combining the data contained in the
metrical anukramanis, is held to have been composed by Katyayana, the famous
teacher of the Yajurveda[84]. With the SrautasUtra of the White Yajurveda by
the same author it has the concise character of its style in common[85]."
Gonda's main bibliographical references p 35 footnote:
"Die Sarvanukramanl des Katyayana zum Rigveda, herausgegeben von A. A.
MACDONELL, Thesis Leipzig, Oxford 1885; Katyayana's Sarvanukramanl . . .
with
extracts from Sadgurusisya's (12th cent.) commentary, edited by A. A.
MACDONEI,:L,
Oxford 1886; cf. also SCHEFTELOWITZ, at ZII 1, p. 89. MACDONELL,
Brhad-devata,
p. XXI. Some anukramanis of later origin need not detain us; see RENOU
(-Fillio-
zat), I. C. I, p. 306; RgvedanukramanI of Madhavabhatta, ed. C. KUNHAN RAJA,
Madras 1932; some editions by VISHVA BANDHU and others, Hoshiarpur 1966
(DANDEKAR, Bibliography, III, p. 14)."
Best, Jan
*Jan E.M. HOUBEN*
Directeur d??tudes
Sources et histoire de la tradition sanskrite
*?cole Pratique des Hautes ?tudes*
*Sciences historiques et philologiques *
54, rue Saint-Jacques
CS 20525 ? 75005 Paris
johannes.houben at ephe.sorbonne.fr
https://ephe-sorbonne.academia.edu/JanEMHouben
www.ephe.fr
On 23 June 2015 at 04:51, Dean Michael Anderson via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
