[INDOLOGY] Article about the politics surrounding indology at	the IHRC
Maybe read the book... 
To comment on the basis of a "blurb" or to stress on details or anecdotes taken from the historiographical parts is not the best (/ fairest) manner to present this epistemological work, written by a very serious archaeologist (specialist of the Neolithic period, like Renfrew). His main point is precisely the problem of circularity of the arguments (linguistic + archaeological + genetics) which can be used for hypothesis (or "scenarios") as numerous/different as there are specialists imagining/reconstructing the proto-history beyond the (linguistic / archaeological / genetic) facts. 
What is  the "entire field" you talk about, what is the "theory informing the field" ? If it is the idea/postulate of a single proto-language "mother" and its sub- proto-languages "daughters" and the subsequent idea of one "proto-people" "father" and its sub- proto-peoples "sons", this is, I think, a very mythical idea which pollutes the scientific explanation of the complex Eurasian prehistory, which one deserves an interdisciplinary approach without such a priori. As I have methodologically argued elsewhere (with the Indo-European and Semitic linguist Guy Jucquois, within a monograph... of the Journal of Indo-European Studies [1997]), referring to Meillet (i-e * forms are not prototypes, viz. items belonging to some mother-tongue, but the sum of the observed correspondances - metatypes one could say), Trubetzkoy (why beyond the observable antique dialectal diversity should it be postulated the simplicity/unity, etc.) and Pisani inter alios, the Indo-European (like other) comparative linguistics does not need of an "ultimate" oversimple explanation for working. To mistake on the nature of its results is detrimental to the whole field of Indo-European comparativism. 
The AITheory is the result of  an illusion (and the OITheory an ideological reaction thereagainst - note that an early version of the latter can already be found in Andr? de Paniagua, Les temps h?ro?ques : ?tude pr?historique d'apr?s les origines indo-europ?ennes, Paris : E. Leroux, 1901: https://archive.org/details/lestempshroques00panigoog - nihil novi sub sole).
Best wishes,
Le 20 juin 2015 ? 03:36, Hock, Hans Henrich <hhhock at illinois.edu> a ?crit :
???????????????????
Christophe Vielle
Louvain-la-Neuve
