[INDOLOGY] regarding Malhotra's plaguerism
"Plaguerism", indeed!
I think we need to look a little deeper into this matter, and take telling
slips of the keyboard like the above seriously.  Malhotra is clearly
experienced by most scholars on this list and RISA as a form of "plague,"
someone so far beyond the pale (sic!) that he needs to be definitively
suppressed, squelched, cast into outer darkness, to use just a few of many
available clich?s for what seems to most responders here to be obvious.  Of
course all are at least tacitly aware that academic ire will do nothing to
shut down the jingoism that is perceived to support Malhotra's project. On
the contrary, it will simply increase the bias against "Western" Indology.
I suggest that the focus be kept on Malhotra as a post-colonial agent, not
on the man as purported plagiarist.  What he is trying to do belongs with
the work of Indian freedom fighters like Aurobindo, Vivekananda, and
Gandhi, and is not an attempt to compete with Halbfass, Renou, or Pollock.
He is a public intellectual, and I think standards  for citation are
different for such individuals. Think of fueilletonists in Weimar Germany
like Walter Benjamin, Karl Kraus, Josef Strauss. Or thinkers like Freud,
Jung, Koestler.  Malhotra is a kind of journalist, one with an ax to grind
(like most journalists) but certainly he has never claimed to be a scholar
and should not be attacked for being a bad one.
The question we should ask is why this obvious fact is not clear. Malhotra
should be considered an object of study, and above all a cultural
interlocutor, not a failed academic competitor.  He needs to be taken
seriously as a Hindu or contemporary Indian phenomenon, not as a scholar,
for which he would never be mistaken.
Al Collins, Ph.D., Ph.D.
Al Collins, Ph.D., Ph.D., BCN
Clinical and cultural psychologist
615 E. 82nd Ave. #102
Anchorage, AK 99518
907-344-3338
https://pacifica.academia.edu/AlfredCollins
On Sat, Jul 18, 2015 at 9:50 AM, Ashok Aklujkar <ashok.aklujkar at gmail.com>
wrote:
