[INDOLOGY] Fwd:  text reuse
Back in 2011 I wrote my BA on the subject of six unidentified palm 
leaves found in the papyri collection of Istituto
Papirologico "G. Vitelli" in Florence. The leaves were written in the 
Sinhalese script and consisted of Sinhalese headlines on various 
Ayurvedic topics followed by Sanskrit verses relevant to the various 
topics. I was quite surprised to find that many, if not all, of the 
verses seemed to be made up of wholes, halves, and even quarts of verses 
taken from the medical literature and rearranged without regard to - or 
mention of - their prior context (I identified verses from 
Carakasa?hit?, Su?rutasa?hit?, A????gasa?graha, A????gah?dayasa?hit?, 
and Garu?apur??a). At the time I noticed three trends in the approach of 
the author/scribe:
a) polyphony: back-to-back quotation of verses or parts of verses from 
various sources on the same subject (e.g. quotations from multiple 
sources on different kinds of meat);
b) fragmentation: splitting up of individual verses or groups of verses 
into separate parts quoted under different headlines in different parts 
of the manuscript (e.g. parts of a section of verses from a single 
source on different kinds of water appearing under multiple headlines 
relevant to water);
c) recontextualization: rearrangement of verses or parts of verses in 
contexts different from the original context resulting in a change of 
syntax and/or semantics (e.g. a verse originally used to describe water 
from the Ganges used in the manuscript to describe the life-giving 
properties of water in general).
It should be noted that the palm leaves in question were originally part 
of a larger manuscript about which nothing is known. As such, it may 
simply have been the private notes of an Ayurvedic doctor. Still, the 
silent splitting up and rearrangement of known verses might be taken as 
an example of a special art of "quotational sampling" (useful, perhaps, 
as a means of creative innovation within the confines of a fixed textual 
tradition).
Best,
Jacob
Jacob Schmidt-Madsen
PhD student
Department of Indology
University of Copenhagen
Denmark
Patrick Olivelle skrev den 2015-07-26 01:25:
