[INDOLOGY] Second-syllable rhyming in Dravidian
Dear Dr Jean- Luc Chevillard,
Your "This is not true!" probably is to my
the hurdles:
Sanskrit meters either as used in languages of the south or in cases such
as gOpIgItam of >Sanskrit, is inter-line.
Thanks for the examples of inter-line SSR from tolkAppiyam.
Does your
to support your statement, please do
refer to my
Your position with regard to this is
So you are asking me to provide me to provide massive number of examples
for intra-line SSR from ancient Tamil literature. Did I get you right?
-No. I am not in a position right now to provide massive number of examples
for intra-line SSR from ancient Tamil literature. I need time to browse
through the corpus I have to see if this is true with ancient Tamil
literature.
All that I can tell you readily with authenticity is that in Telugu, which
is one of the Dravidian languages, intra-line SSR is part of the rules of
all the native verse meters but as an alternative to intra-line FSR. The
rule of line-break is based on feet count unlike the syllable count in
Sanskrit meters. Since it is part of rule, naturally there are massive
number of examples in Telugu for intra-line SSR , spread all over the
Telugu verse literature employing native Telugu meters.
Sri Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan in
http://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology_list.indology.info/2015-July/041805.html
says,
The second syllable rhyme can also occur within a line in different
patterns. Assuming there are are four feet in a line, the second-syllable
rhyming can occur in different patterns such as between feet 1 and 2; 1 and
3; 1 and 4; 1, 2, and 3; 1, 3, and 4; 1, 2, and 4; and 1, 2, 3, and 4.
So the Tamil situation is similar to Telugu at least in so far as 'The rule
of line-break is based on feet count unlike the syllable count in Sanskrit
meters'.
If inter-line SSR is so massive in ancient Tamil literature, origin of the
inter-line SSR in Sanskrit borrowed Telugu verse meters can probably be
traced to an older Dravidian situation. That becoming a strict rule
for Sanskrit
borrowed Telugu verse meters could be specific to Telugu prosody.
If inter-line SSR in ancient Tamil lyrical literature is proved to be a
regular lyrical meter device, the gOpIgItam's SSR can safely get connected
to a Tamil or Dravidian origin.
Quantity rules are rigidly ingrained in Sanskrit meters; so one may explain
the quantity correspondence of initial vowel in the SSR of gOpIgItam in
terms of the rigidly ingrained vowel quantity pattern rules in Sanskrit
meters. That is another problem area in the topic.
On Sun, Aug 9, 2015 at 4:50 PM, Jean-Luc Chevillard <
jean-luc.chevillard at univ-paris-diderot.fr> wrote:
Prof.Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad-500044
