[INDOLOGY] Fwd: Re: Fwd: Help on mystery painting of Ramayana (?) episode
	Re: [INDOLOGY] Fwd: Help on mystery painting of Ramayana (?) 
episode
Re: [INDOLOGY] Fwd: Help on mystery painting of Ramayana (?) episode 
Dear all
Many thanks to Nityanand Misra for providing such a plausible 
identification, and for bringing to our attention yet another source 
book to be trawled for our inventory of R?ma narrative motifs.  It is 
all truly exciting, and yet another lesson to us scholars not to neglect 
the influence of non-written sources on visual tellers.
I suppose the black speck in the middle of the dish is the [reflection 
of the] bee/wasp.  Might the almost-hidden female figure perhaps be 
Mandodar??  Is there any explanation for Lak?ma?a?s feet being off the 
ground?  [The cynic in me links it to the requirement to stand for hours 
on a pan of boiling oil]
The internationally widespread idea of the separable soul -- that 
villains are made all the more indestructible by having their vital 
organ located outside their body -- is manifested in increasingly 
fantastic ways throughout the R?ma tradition, and attached to several 
/r?k?asas/; Mah?r?va?a?s soul is also in a bee in the Thai /R?makien/, 
and is crushed by Hanum?n to save the captive R?ma and Lak?ma?a.  The 
?soul in bee? motif is not confined to the R?ma tradition: other 
examples are listed in /The Oral Tales of India/ by Stith Thompson and 
Jonas Balys (Bloomington: Indiana U P, 1958) as motif E715.3, so there 
is no question of direct influence.
As for the severed hands, either they represent R?ma?s previous 
unsuccessful attempts to kill R?va?a (in which case why haven?t they 
regenerated?), or (less plausibly) the beginning of his disintegration 
at the point of death.
It is intriguing that the hero is shown as Lak?ma?a; this is standard in 
Jain texts, but unusual elsewhere.  His celibacy as a qualification for 
special prowess (usually expressed as not having seen a woman?s face 
since the exile, and so unavailable to R?ma) is generally associated 
with being able to see the invisible Indrajit.
As always, solving one problem only raises other questions!  That?s what 
makes our profession so compelling and so rewarding.
Mrs M. Brockington
Research Fellow, International Association of Sanskrit Studies
113 Rutten Lane
Yarnton
Kidlington
OX5 1LT
U.K.
