[INDOLOGY] meters and songs: the Vedas /// Re: Does anyone know of Sanskrit works that use 2nd-syllable rhyming
Dear George,
Good to have your message, please keep us informed of your broodings. Here
some reflections on the interrelation of RV and SV:
see for instance Jan Gonda 1975: 313-314 and references to Oldenberg.
"Most of these stanzas are composed in gaayatrii metre or pragaatha stanzas
and doubtless from the beginning intended for singing."
Frits Staal apparently imagined a more or less "purely" Indo-european
SV-less RV which is not attested: Staal 2008, Discovering the
Vedas p. 116-117 and references, and p. 250-251:
"The case of the Saamavedins is special ... the words of the original,
indigenous Saamaveda chants are lost. ... their names
are non-Indo-European: some have a recognizably BMAC structure and a few
are Dravidian. The words of the RV often
do not fit and the melodies seem to reflect another language."
The last statement goes counter to an observation elsewhere advocated in
Discovering the Vedas: the universality of music vis ? vis language.
By way of comparison: Greek, Latin and Hebrew words fit equally well or bad
in any melody of Gregorian chant (which also contains a few meaningless
"stobhas").
If the seating arrangement in the sadas reflects an encounter between
different populations or at least different ritual traditions (Frits
Staal's important and original
contribution to the issue), this encounter should have taken place long
before the current version of the RV was finalized both according to the
linguistic observations
of FBJ Kuiper and according to the "saamavedic" observations of Oldenberg
and Gonda of the RV being the oldest "samhitaa" of the SV. The currently
available
recension of the SV, however, is definitely "post-RV".
I am sure Asko will have a more detailed and well-informed opinion on the
matter and perhaps deals with it in his recent book.
Jan
*Jan E.M. HOUBEN*
Directeur d??tudes
Sources et histoire de la tradition sanskrite
*?cole Pratique des Hautes ?tudes*
*Sciences historiques et philologiques *
54, rue Saint-Jacques
CS 20525 ? 75005 Paris
johannes.houben at ephe.sorbonne.fr
https://ephe-sorbonne.academia.edu/JanEMHouben
www.ephe.fr
On 30 July 2015 at 00:59, George Thompson <gthomgt at gmail.com> wrote:
