[INDOLOGY] Hindi v Sanskrit
Dear Prof Hans,
I would also like to share our experience while building a Kannada-Hindi
Anusaaraka system, later followed by Telugu-Hindi, Marathi-Hidi Anusaaraka
systems. (Anusaaraka is a machine that follows the source language
constructions and produces its image in the target language).
We found that there are only 3 differences at the syntactic level between
the modern Indo Aryan and Dravidian languages.
Without going into linguistic details, let me put in simple form.
a) copula : Dravidian languages have copula less constructions such as
raamu.du vaidya.du, while Hindi requires an explicit 'hai' as in raama
vaidya hai.
b) 'ki' construction: The sentences with 'ani' in Telugu of the form X ani
Y are best translated into Hindi as 'Y ki X', though Hindi allows a
construction X aisaa Y.
For example, nenu i.m.tiki ve.ltunnaa.du ani raamu.du cepaa.du  -> mai.m
ghara jaa rahaa hu.m aisaa raama ne kahaa
better translation would be 'raama ne kahaa ki mai.m ghara jaa rahaa hu.m'
c) relative participial: While  Sanskrit and Hindi mark the information of
kaaraka in the k.rdanta, Telugu does not mark the kaaraka information but
marks the tense information.
So in Telugu it is possible to say
raamu.du tinina pa.ndu : The fruit eaten by Raama, raama ne khaayaa huaa
phala
raamu.du tinina pa.l.le.m : The plate in which Raama ate, raama ne jisa
thaalii me.m khaaya vaha thaalii
raamu.du tinina cemcaa : The spoon with which Raama ate, raame ne jisa
camacca se khaayaa vaha camacca
This is where the Dakkini borrowed the 'so' construction and we have raama
khaayaa so plate/cammaca/phala etc in Dakkani.
Best regards,
Amba
On 18 August 2015 at 22:07, Hock, Hans Henrich <hhhock at illinois.edu> wrote:
? ?? ?????: ?????? ????? ??????: ll
Let noble thoughts come to us from every side.
- Rig Veda, I-89-i.
Assoc Prof.
Department of Sanskrit Studies
University of Hyderabad
Prof. C.R. Rao Road
Hyderabad-500 046
(91) 040 23133802(off)
http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/scl
http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/faculty/amba
