12.08.15
<the khilas, long known and often published as an appendix to editions of
the ?gveda, are almost all found incorporated in the hymns of the
??val?yana recension. They are apocrypha only for the ??kala recension.
They are genuine ?gveda mantras, as shown by their presence within the
??val?yana-Sa?hit?.>
<Chaubey stated that the 212 additional mantras not found in ??kala
recension are not given in ??val?yana pada-p??ha manuscripts. He therefore,
after learning its different method of showing the avagraha, supplied them
himself>
<was the pada-p??ha for this(10.121.10) verse prepared and added by Chaubey
to his edition of the ??val?yana recension? And perhaps then copied by Amal
Dhari Singh Gautam for his edition of the ???kh?yana recension? Or is it in
fact found in manuscripts of the pada-p??ha of the ??val?yana and/or the
???kh?yana recension? >
The first two paragraphs cited from the mail, I think, leaves the
importance of the ??val?yana Sa?hit?  as to the recensional history of the
RV to question. The khilas did not originally belong to the RV as
represented by the Vulgate ie ??kala-Sa?hit?.  Unless we find any reason
(violence, obnoxious practice) for their exclusion from an older version at
a later date, the hymns have to be regarded as originally alien to the RV.
Even the ?aunak?ya Sa?hit? relegates them to its 20th k???a, regarded as
apocryphal by many. And the Paippal?da-Sa?hit? does not incorporate them
with it.
The ??val?yana-Sa?hit??s liberal inclusion shows its emergence in later
slack times.
Added problems with the new recension could have been any liberty taken by
the editor. There would not be any problem in such case if the exact
readings and their difference, if any, from the manuscripts are furnished
by the editor. Did late Professor Chaubey, a longtime friend and colleague
of mine, give the MS readings for 10.121.10? Any decision has to be taken
on that basis.
What we all are prone to do is leaving the answers to such questions
equivocal. And exactly this point was raised by me sometime as a practice
that must be avoided. I think it is imperative that someone took up the
edition for study.  I paid only a cursory glance which did not lead to any
noticeable defect.  I hope none will be discovered. Still, a study is
called for.
Best
Dipak Bhattacharya?
On Tue, Aug 11, 2015 at 11:05 PM, David and Nancy Reigle <dnreigle at gmail.com
