=?utf-8?Q?[INDOLOGY]_Early_Asceticism_in_India._=C4=80j=C4=ABvikism_and_Jainism_(Publication_Announcement)?=
Dear List Members,
I would like to announce the publication of the following book: 
Balcerowicz, Piotr: 
Early Asceticism in India. ?j?vikism and Jainism. 
(Routledge Advances in Jaina Studies) 
Routledge / Taylor & Francis Group, London?New York 2016.
ISBN: 9781138847132
ISBN-10: 1138847135
More info: https://www.routledge.com/products/9781138847132
ABOUT THE BOOK
?j?vikism was once ranked one of the most important religions in India between the 4th and 2nd centuries BCE, after Buddhism, ?Brahmanism? and before Jainism, but is now a forgotten Indian religion. However, Jainism has remained an integral part of the religious landscape of South Asia, despite the common beginnings shared with ?j?vikism.
By rediscovering, reconstructing, and examining the ?j?vikism doctrine, its art, origins and development, this book provides new insight into ?j?vikism, and discusses how this information enables us to better understand its impact on Jainism and its role in the development of Indian religion and philosophy. This book explains how, why and when Jainism developed its strikingly unique logic and epistemology and what historical and doctrinal factors prompted the ideas which later led to the formulation of the doctrine of multiplexity of reality (anek?nta-v?da). It also provides answers to difficult passages of Buddhist S?ma??a-phala-sutta that baffled both Buddhist commentators and modern researchers.
Offering clearer perspectives on the origins of Jainism the book will be an invaluable contribution to Jaina Studies, Asian Religion and Religious History.
CONTENTS 
1. Introduction 
2. The Encounter 
3. Go??la as a ?Jaina? Teacher 
4. Souls and Colours 
5. Divination and Foretelling the Future 
6. Common Set of Early Scriptures 
7. Common Cosmology 
8. Go??la?s First Teaching and Vardham?na?s First Ascetic Experiences 
9. The Finalities, Death and Sallekhan? 
10. Drinkables, Undrinkables and the Waters of the S?ma??a-phala-sutta 
11. ?j?vikas, Pottery and Pots 
12. Determinism, ?j?vikas and Jainism 
13. Early Anek?nta-v?da and the Three Figures 
14. ?j?vikas, Trair??ikas, Jainas 
15. The Beginnings of the Sapta-bha?g? 
16. Early Epistemological Devices and the Beginnings of Jaina Logic 
17. The Anek?nta-v?da and the ?j?vikas 
18. Traces of the Anek?nta in Pali Buddhist Literature? 
19. A Religious Centre and the Art of the ?j?vikas 
20. Three Traditions: P?r?va, Go??la, Mah?v?ra
Best regards,
Piotr Balcerowicz
www.orient.uw.edu.pl/balcerowicz
