From baums at lmu.de  Sun Sep 13 17:04:03 2015
From: baums at lmu.de (Stefan Baums)
Date: Sun, 13 Sep 15 19:04:03 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Position at University of Wisconsin
Message-ID: <20150913170403.GC3124@deepthought>

The Indology Committe has been asked to repost the
following job announcement, which was originally
posted on the Indology list a little while ago. Any
inquiries should be sent directly to the chair of the
search committee.

--------------------------------------------------

EAST ASIAN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE

University of Wisconsin - Madison

The University of Wisconsin-Madison, as part of its
initiative to re-envision the study of the languages,
cultures, and societies of Asia, is seeking to hire a
TransAsia / transdisciplinary scholar with expertise
in at least one South or Southeast Asian language,
beginning August, 2016. Rank and area of
specialization are open. The tenure home will reside
in the newly- forming Department of Asian Studies.
Preference will be given to applicants who
demonstrate the ability to cross disciplinary and
cultural borders in their research and teaching, and
who have the vision and skills to build new academic
programs. A tenured appointment requires a proven
record of excellence in research and teaching at all
levels. We are particularly interested in applicants
whose work addresses pressing issues of the day, in
areas including but not limited to: digital
humanities; literary, media, or cultural studies;
qualitative and fieldwork-based social sciences on
themes such as poverty, health, migration, human
rights, and the environment; or religious studies.
Salary is competitive. Qualified applicants should
send a complete dossier (including letter of
application, CV, sample publication or thesis
chapter) and three letters of reference to:

Chair, Search Committee
Department of East Asian Languages and Literature
1208 Van Hise Hall
1220 Linden Drive
University of Wisconsin-Madison
Madison, WI 53706

To ensure full consideration, applications must be
received by October 15, 2015.

Finalists cannot be guaranteed confidentially. A
criminal background check will be required prior to
employment. UW-Madison is an affirmative action,
equal opportunity employer and encourages women and
minorities to apply.

--------------------------------------------------

-- 
Dr. Stefan Baums
Institute for Indian and Tibetan Studies
Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich





