[INDOLOGY] New MA Program, "History of Philosophies, East and West"
Dear Colleagues,
I am happy to announce the inauguration of a new MA program beginning
in the fall of 2016: ?History of Philosophies, East and West.? It is a
joint graduate program offered by the Department of Philosophy and
Department of Asian & Asian American Studies at Stony Brook University
in New York.
Please feel free to share this announcement widely. An informational
brochure is here: http://bit.ly/1Lro32g
The program website, with a link to the graduate application, is here:
http://www.stonybrook.edu/hpew
For more information, you may contact me
(andrew.nicholson at stonybrook.edu) or the program director, Jeff
Edwards (jeff.edwards at stonybrook.edu).
With best wishes,
Andrew
History of Philosophies, East and West
This interdisciplinary joint MA program brings together expert faculty
in the history of philosophy in two of Stony Brook University?s
departments: Asian & Asian American Studies, and Philosophy. It
enables students to broaden their knowledge of philosophy by treating
it as a world-wide, rather than an exclusively western, undertaking.
The program provides Humanities students with philosophically informed
and historically grounded perspectives on what is arguably the
principal cultural encounter of our time. Curriculum
Coursework
focuses on key aspects of the following philosophical traditions:
Buddhist, Confucian, Hindu, Islamic; ancient Greek and Roman,
Christian medieval, and modern European. Teaching is based on primary
texts in English translation, with selective use of secondary sources.
Special emphasis is placed on understanding native terms and concepts
from the original languages or works studied. The historical texts
that you will study belong to these areas of inquiry: ethics,
metaphysics, theories of knowledge, social and political philosophy,
aesthetics, philosophical anthropology, philosophical theology.
Program Requirements
This 30-credits MA degree can be earned in one year. But it is
recommended that full-time students complete the HPEW program as
follows: Year one: 24 credits (four 3-credit courses per semester)
Year two: 6 credits (two 3-credit in the semester of full-time
enrollment) It is also possible to enroll in HPEW on a part-time basis
(i.e., by taking fewer than 12 credit hours per semester)
Founding Faculty
William Chittick
Professor, Asian and Asian American Studies
Pre-modern Islamic intellectual history
Allegra de Laurentiis
Associate Professor, Philosophy
Nineteenth century and ancient Greek philosophy
Jeffrey Edwards
Associate Professor, Philosophy
Kant, history of modern philosophy
Sachiko Murata
Professor, Asian and Asian American Studies
Islamic and far Eastern thought
Andrew J. Nicholson
Associate Professor, Asian and Asian American Studies
Indian philosophy and intellectual history
Andrew J. Nicholson
Associate Professor
SUNY Stony Brook
Stony Brook, NY 11794-5343
(631) 632-4030
http://philosophicalrasika.com/
