From S.Newcombe at lse.ac.uk  Fri Oct  9 14:35:36 2015
From: S.Newcombe at lse.ac.uk (Suzanne Newcombe)
Date: Fri, 09 Oct 15 15:35:36 +0100
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Court Denies Copyright for Yoga Guru's Moves
Message-ID: <CAGK1M63_XTXhp73M_cvu7AOAwuBFRxuv1anybWPNSWqZXxRovA@mail.gmail.com>

May be of interest to those on these lists...



Courthouse News Service

Thursday, October 08, 2015

By KATHERINE PROCTOR



PASADENA, Calif. (CN) - A popular yoga master's sequence of poses and
breathing exercises is not entitled to copyright protection, the Ninth
Circuit ruled Thursday.



    Bikram Choudhury - who became a central yoga figure in Beverly Hills in
the 1970s, and whose website declares him "the most respected living yoga
guru in the world" - developed and popularized his sequence through his own
studio, where he began offering "Bikram Yoga" classes.


     Choudhury further marketed the sequence by publishing the 1979 book
"Bikram's Beginning Yoga Class," and he has publicly stated that his
sequence extended the careers of professional athletes like Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar and John McEnroe, according to the circuit's 23-page opinion.


     In July 2011, Choudhury sued Evolation Yoga for copyright infringement
as to the sequence, but a federal judge found that the sequence was not
entitled to copyright protection. A three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit
upheld the ruling.


     Writing for the panel, Circuit Judge Kim Wardlaw said that "at bottom,
the sequence is an idea, process, or system designed to improve health,"
and "copyright protects only the expression of this idea - the words and
pictures used to describe the sequence - and not the idea of the sequence
itself."


     Wardlaw questioned whether "Choudhury's copyright protection for his
1979 book extends to the sequence itself."


     "Under the fundamental tenets of copyright law and consistent with the
precedents discussed above, the answer is no," she said.


     She added that if the sequence "is entitled to protection at all, that
protection is more properly sought through the patent process."


     "That the sequence may produce spiritual and psychological benefits
makes it no less an idea, system, or process and no more amenable to
copyright protection," Wardlaw said.


     And as to Choudhury's contention that the sequence's arrangement of
postures is "particularly beautiful and graceful," Wardlaw said that
"beauty is not a basis for copyright protection."


