[INDOLOGY] Fwd: Sagar Journal Call for Papers
Sagar Journal Call for Papers
*SAGAR: A South Asia Research Journal* is now accepting full-length
research articles and translations for its next print volume, to be
published in Spring 2016. The theme of this special issue is ?South Asia
and the World.? We welcome papers that:
   - Analyze South Asian history, culture, politics, arts and society in
   comparison with other regions of the world,
   - Examine the lived experiences of South Asian diasporas or diasporas
   living in South Asia, or
   - Translate seminal literary or academic texts that do the same from any
   other language into English.
The deadline for submission is *November 25, 2015*. Please send your
manuscripts or questions to sagarjournal at gmail.com. Submissions should
include (i) the main document as a Microsoft Word file without the
author(s)? name to allow for blind review, (ii) a title page with a
100-word biography of each author and contact information, (iii)
publishable images with credits, if any, and (iv) for translations, a
scanned copy of the original source text.
Manuscripts are expected to follow the 16th edition of the *Chicago Manual
of Style*. Full citation information should be included in footnotes. The
entire articles, including block quotations and notes, should be
double-spaced.
*Full-length articles* should be 8,000-10,000 words in length and include a
250-word abstract.
*Translations* should be 3,000-6,000 words in length, preceded by a
1,200-1,500-word introduction contextualizing the text or excerpt. If your
submission is accepted, you will be asked to type the original source text
for publication on our website. Getting necessary permissions is the
author(s)? responsibility.
*Sagar* publishes innovative academic writing in the humanities and social
sciences of South Asia, as well as critical translations. It was
established in 1993 and is published annually by the South Asia Institute
at the University of Texas at Austin. Submissions for our print issue are
blindly evaluated by an editorial board of advanced scholars in the field.
*Sagar* is listed on EBSCO databases, which are used for academic research
by tens of thousands of institutions worldwide. This will substantially
enhance the visibility of articles published in the journal.
Besides our annual print volume, we also publish online essays all through
the year. These essays should be 1,500 words or less and should include
citations. Submissions with images, video and/or audio are encouraged.
Online essays are blindly evaluated by an editorial collective of UT
graduate students in consultation with our faculty board.
Our archive reviews are also published throughout the year. We encourage
contributions from scholars who have recently consulted particular
archives. Contributors should include information about archive holdings,
accessibility and fees, working hours, duplication, and food and lodging.
Visit sagarjournal.org/about for more instructions on style and formatting.
Saif Shahin and Jeff Wilson
Chief Editors, *Sagar: A South Asia Research Journal*
sagarjournal at gmail.com
sagarjournal.org
*Sagar: A South Asia Research Journal*
University of Texas at Austin
South Asia Institute
WCH 4.132, Mailcode G9300
Austin, TX, 78712
ph: 512-471-3550
http://sagarjournal.org/
