[INDOLOGY] Job Announcement: tenure-track position in Hindi-Urdu	Language and Culture, University of British Columbia
Dear Colleagues, 
I?m pleased to pass on the following announcement for a tenure-track opening (at the Assistant or Associate level) at UBC, Vancouver, for Hindi/Urdu Language and Culture. Please see the official advert at: http://www.arts.ubc.ca/hindi-urdu-language-and-culture-tenure-track-professorial-position/, 
but I?ll be happy to answer questions you might have about the search. Applications are due Nov. 16.
All best wishes,
Adheesh
?
Dr. Adheesh Sathaye
Dept. of Asian Studies
University of British Columbia
408-1871 West Mall
Vancouver BC CANADA V6T1Z2
adheesh at mail.ubc.ca 
+1. 604.822.5188
????
Hindi-Urdu Language and Culture (tenure-track professorial position)
The Department of Asian Studies, University of British Columbia, invites applications for a tenure-stream professorial appointment in Hindi-Urdu Language and Culture (discipline and period open), at the rank of Assistant Professor or Associate Professor. Applicants are expected to have advanced ability in both Hindi and Urdu (as well as English), and should be qualified to teach advanced (3rd? and 4th-year undergraduate) courses in both Hindi and Urdu, and in addition to lecture in their field(s) of specialization.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. (or expect to have successfully defended prior to July 1, 2016). The successful candidate will be expected to demonstrate excellence in research and undergraduate and graduate teaching and be expected to maintain an active program of research, publication, teaching, graduate supervision, and service, and to be engaged in work that is methodologically innovative and can be conceptualized in ways that complement and broaden the Department?s interdisciplinary research interests and that contribute to broader disciplinary and interdisciplinary fields of knowledge. Information about the Department and faculty research can be found on its website, www.asia.ubc.ca.
The starting salary for the position will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. This position is subject to final budgetary approval. The University of British Columbia hires on the basis of merit and is committed to employment equity and diversity within its community. We especially welcome applications from members of visible minority groups, women, Aboriginal persons, persons with disabilities, persons of minority sexual orientations and gender identities, and others with the skills and knowledge to engage productively with diverse communities. We encourage all qualified persons to apply; Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada will, however, be given priority.
The application dossier should include: a letter of application, curriculum vitae, and a sample chapter or scholarly paper (maximum 30 pages). In addition, applicants should arrange to have three confidential letters of recommendation sent separately by their referees. The deadline for the receipt of applications and reference letters is November 16, 2015. The anticipated start date of employment is July 1, 2016. Send application materials to: Chair, Search Committee, Department of Asian Studies, 1871 West Mall, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada, V6T 1Z2. Applications may also be submitted electronically to asia.jobsearch at ubc.ca.
