=?utf-8?Q?[INDOLOGY]_Professorship_(W3)_in_=E2=80=9EClassical_Indology=E2=80=9C_(Succession_to_Prof._Dr._Axel_Michaels)?=
The SouthAsia Institute of Heidelberg University (Germany) invites applications for aposition ranked as aFull Professorship (W3) in ?Classical Indology?(Succession to Prof. Dr. Axel Michaels)to be filled by October 2016.The position has an emphasis on the cultural and religious history ofSouth Asia. The candidate is expected to cover classical Indian languages,especially Sanskrit, and the cultural and religious history of South Asia,especially Hinduism, in teaching and research. Knowledge of a modern Indianlanguage and experience in field research are advantageous. The candidate isexpected to cover a broad spectrum of the discipline in undergraduate andpostgraduate teaching.The South Asia Institute of Heidelberg University (http://www.sai.uni-heidelberg.de/) with seven academicdisciplines and four additional affiliated professors has a particular focus oninterdisciplinary research and has been very successful in attracting researchgrants for joint research projects. The candidate would be expected to participatein inter-departmental research projects and to collaborate with otherdepartments at the South Asia Institute as well as with the Heidelberg Centrefor Transcultural Studies. A university degree, a Ph.D. qualification, teaching experience, and (inaccordance with Article 47, paragraph 2 of the Higher Education Law of thestate of Baden-W?rttemberg) a ?Habilitation? or academic achievements comparableto the German ?Habilitation? (in particular a successfully evaluated Junior-Professorship)are prerequisites for a successful application.The University is intent on increasing the share of women in areas wherethey have been previously underrepresented. Applications from qualified women arestrongly encouraged. Preference will be given to disabled applicants with equalqualifications and aptitude for the position.Applications containing a curriculum vitae, proof of teachingexperience, a list of publications, copies of academic certificates and teachingevaluations should be sent as a single PDF document by email to the Dean of theFaculty of Philosophy, Prof. Dr. Gerrit Kloss, Vo?str. 2, Geb. 37, 69115Heidelberg, E-Mail: philosophische.fakultaet at uni-heidelberg.de.? The application deadline is 22.12.2015.Informal inquiries regarding this position may be addressed to theDirector of the South Asia Institute, Prof. Dr. Stefan Klonner, Tel. 0049 6221548924.?
