From diwakar.acharya at bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp  Wed Nov 11 07:13:12 2015
From: diwakar.acharya at bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp (Diwakar ACHARYA)
Date: Wed, 11 Nov 15 16:13:12 +0900
Subject: [INDOLOGY] fixed term (5 years) Associate Professor Position at the Department of Indological Studies, Kyoto University
In-Reply-To: <CAPW7aQGJ=55G=uKOJbkPHC-9bY7B5ooAupSfQ7xjcASEWgfG3w@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <1447225992251393.1342961919@mail04.iimc.kyoto-u.ac.jp>

Dear Colleagues,

Please note the following job advertisement for a position at Kyoto University. Please feel free to share this announcement with any interested potential candidates for the position. You could download the pdf-file of the announcement from the following address:

http://www.kyoto-u.ac.jp/en/about/employment/other/employment-faculty.html

I suggest that normally the would be candidates contact Prof. Yuko Yokochi, and in case of further inquiries they can contact me and Prof. Akihiko Akamatsu, too.
  
best regards,

Diwakar Acharya



*********************
Dr. Diwakar N. Acharya
Associate Professor
Graduate School of Letters
Kyoto University
Yoshida Honmachi, Sakyo-ku
Kyoto 606-8501, Japan
Tel.: +81 75 753 2803 (office)

???????????????????

Program-Specific Foreign Language Associate Professor Position at the 
Department of Indological Studies, Graduate School of Letters / Faculty 
of Letters, Kyoto University 
October 22 2015 

The Department of Indological Studies, Graduate School of Letters & 
Faculty of Letters, at Kyoto University invites applications for a 
post-doctoral teaching fellow position. 

The main duty of this position is teaching Sanskrit Grammar. All the 
classes should be held in English and the Japanese ability is not 
required. The longest term of employment is five years, which cannot be 
renewed, and one who can work more than three years is desirable. 

An academic year here consists of two terms: the first term from the 
beginning of April to the beginning of August and the second term from 
the beginning of October and the beginning of February. Teaching at 
this position is preferably to start from the second term of 2016. 

Qualifications 
1.Excellent level of Sanskrit ability.
2.Fluency in English: not only to teach classes but also to instruct 
academic writing inEnglish, specifically dissertations and research 
papers, in Indology and related fields. 
3.PhD degree is required in principle.
4.Preference will be given to the candidate who has the knowledge of 
Indo-Europeanlinguistics and/or some languages relevant to our field 
(Tamil, Pali, Prakrit, Hindi etc.) and the candidate who can teach 
German or French reading class in the field of Indology and Buddhology. 
5.Japanese ability is not required.

Employment Conditions 
1.Working hours are 38 hours 45 minutes per week under a flexible-hours 
system.
2.Main duty is to teach six classes per week (one class takes one and 
half hour). Two ofthe six classes are allotted to the Sanskrit Grammar 
and at least one class to English for academic writing in Indology and 
related field (including doctoral theses). In addition to the six, one 
more class in basic education course may sometimes be required. 
3.There is no duty in the administration of the Faculty and University. 
On the otherhand, active involvement in the department?s education 
programme and management will be expected. 
4.A monthly salary of \750,000 shall be paid on a specified day each 
month. Taxes,insurance and other applicable deductions shall be 
deducted from this amount. The travel cost between the home country and 
Japan should be paid on one?s own. 
5.Holidays with pay are 20 days per year. In addition, there are 
several Nationalholidays, New Year holidays (about a week) and Bon 
holidays (three days in the middle of August). 
6.Eligible for MEXT* mutual aid association membership, employment 
insurance, andworkers? compensation insurance. 
*Japan?s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology
7.All allowances (commuting allowance, housing allowance, and 
dependency allowance)will not be paid. 

Applicants should submit the following documents to the contact address 
mentioned below by February 5, 2016 either by email or by airmail. 
References should be sent separately from the referents. 

1.A cover letter stating your motivation for this position
2.A CV
3.A set of copies of representative publications
4.Two references (referents? signature is not required when their 
references are sent tothe contact person by email). 

Contact Address: 
Prof. Yuko Yokochi 
Head of the selection committee 
Email: yyokochi at bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp 
Department of Indological Studies, 
Graduate School of Letters, Kyoto University 
Yoshida Honmachi, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 
606-8501 JAPAN 

If there is any question, do not hesitate to get contact with us, 
please. 
You can also get contact with Prof. Diwakar Acharya for the information 
about the working condition of our department 
(diwakar.acharya at bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp). 








