[INDOLOGY] rubrication in Indian mss.
Dear colleagues,
Thank you for the fresh crop of suggestions and remarks.  I feel more uncertain than yesterday about the hypothesis I advanced, but no more convinced by any other theories.
A couple of considerations that guide me here could be mentioned.  
1) Since both epigraphical passages, that of Pre Rup and that of the ??rama-charters, come from exactly the same area, are just 70 years apart and talk about writing, it seems to me that the ideal would be to find an interpretation of m?tsn? that would fit them both.
This makes me disinclined, for example, to favour the idea suggested by Professor Aklujkar that m?tsn? might refer here to clay used for softening palm-leaves.  (A further consideration that makes this seem unlikely is that the ??rama-charters refer to the employment of 6 leaf-preparers, so it is presumably they who would be occupied with curing the leaves rather than the students.)
2) Although I am often accused of being only too ready to introduce conjectural emendations, in this case I think we have to follow the principle of sthitasya gati? cintan?y?, for these inscriptions are not only beautifully and carefully engraved, but the ??rama-charters have actually been beautifully and carefully several times over.  This means that emending ma??? m?tsn?? to ma??m?tsn??, which is I think what Christophe is suggesting, seems out of the question.
Bearing these guiding principles in mind I was in favour yesterday of understanding m?tsn? as ?steatite/chalk pencil? or the like, and therefore perhaps simply as ?writing implement? generically.  I certainly still think that this is possible, but I now think that the ?powder? hypothesis (chalk, talk, or, as N. Ganesan has suggested, turmeric) cannot be abandoned either. There are two difficulties with it: 1) it remains uncertain exactly how the powder would be used in manuscript production (rubbing turmeric to cure the leaves or render them supple ? rubbing light-coloured clay or powder to highlight the leaf around certain letters ? rubbing light-coloured powder instead of soot or blackener into the grooves that form certain letters, to achieve a sort of ?rubrication" in white ? marking out guidelines on the leaf before beginning to incise ?); and 2) it is unclear how the powder would be used in archery.
Reflecting about this second uncertainty, I noticed that Sarva Daman Singh (Ancient Indian Warfare: With Special Reference to the Vedic Period, p. 172) recounts an anecdote about an extraordinary South Indian archer in modern times who was nicknamed Kaliyug? Arjuna:
"He smeared exceedingly sharp arrow-tips with chalk dust and shot them at the bare backs of students with a perfect delicacy of control, so that they left only chalk marks on their tender targets without even grazing them."
This is not about ancient times, but if the trick was practised recently, then it might have been thought up long ago.  Perhaps K?ma is after all imagined similarly to have dusted his arrows with chalk.  Moreover, as Andrew Ollett has pointed out to me, the Pre Rup verse 
"provides some additional support to the chalk hypothesis, since it would have been impossible for the king's glory (and therefore also the letter drawn by k?ma's arrows) to have been anything other than white.?
Please let me know if you have further ideas on this (I am trying to finish an article about what can be gleaned about text-transmission practices in ancient times in the Khmer-speaking area).
Dominic Goodall,
EFEO, Pondicherry
