[INDOLOGY] Call For Papers - Eighth Joint Meeting of the BSHS, CSHPS, and HSS, 22-25 June 2016, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
 The eighth joint meeting of the British Society for the History of
Science, the Canadian Society for the History and Philosophy of Science,
and the History of Science Society will take place in Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada.  Previous successful meetings were in Philadelphia (2012), Oxford
(2008), Halifax, Nova Scotia (2004), St Louis (2000), Edinburgh (1996),
Toronto (1992), and Manchester (1988).
The theme of the meeting will be ?Transitions.?  Although presenters are
not confined to this theme, the Program Committee is seeking papers or
sessions that reflect this theme and encourages participants to consider
the broader scientific, scholarly and social implications associated with
moments of scientific transition. Transitions might include such ideas as
moving from one scientific meme to another, one locality to another or
generational change.
The programme will include themed sessions, plenary lectures and panels. A
typical presentation will be 20 minutes plus 10 minutes for questions, but
special sessions such as round tables and panels will be accommodated.
The conference will take place at the University of Alberta. Founded in
1905, U of A is located in Edmonton, Canada?s most northern major city.
Edmonton is known as the ?Gateway to the North? and is the capital of the
province. It is a major economic and cultural hub, situated on the banks of
the North Saskatchewan River. The conference will include education and
outreach activities, a reception at the Art Gallery of Alberta and a
Conference Dinner. Delegates can explore the vibrant arts scene, and there
are many festivals in June, including the Edmonton International Jazz
Festival. Accommodation will be available on campus and near campus.
The Programme Committee welcomes proposals for sessions or individual
papers based around the conference theme from researchers at all stages of
their careers. Participation is in no way limited to members of the three
organising societies, but there will be a discount for members.  Intending
participants should also note that the usual HSS rules concerning
presenting at successive conferences do not apply to this meeting.
The deadline for submitting a session or paper proposal is 4 December 2015.
Full details of how to submit your session or abstract can be found at:
www.uab.ca/3societies
Enquiries concerning the program should be directed to: aede at ualberta.ca
Enquiries concerning the conference should be directed to:
threesocieties2016 at ualberta.ca
Professor Dominik Wujastyk* <http://ualberta.Academia.edu/DominikWujastyk>
Singhmar Chair in Classical Indian Society and Polity
Department of History and Classics <http://historyandclassics.ualberta.ca/>
University of Alberta, Canada
