[INDOLOGY] rubrication in Indian mss.
Dear colleagues,
I am grateful for all this (for me) new information about parabaik, nipah, gebang.
Arlo is right that the ??rama-foundation charters mention blank ?leaves? (riktapattra). The same ninth-century charters record (verse 98) that 6 leaf-preparers (?a? pattrak?rak??) are to be employed at each ??rama, as well as two scribes (lekhakau) and two librarians (pustakarak?akau). The word pattra could, of course, be a figurative way of referring to some other writing material, but this seems unlikely.  
The ?earth? used in Aditia Gunawan?s passages seems rather likely to be a blackening agent, and so, on the face of it, unlikely to be parallel to the m?tsn?, for the same sentence in the charters refers also to ma??, which is presumably black.  As for the possibility that m?tsn? refers to chalk, that might have been suggested not only by the Chinese allusion to blackened deerskin but also by an awareness of parabaik-use that Christoph has informed us about.  These may have been invented later, but is also, I suppose, not inconceivable that palm-leaves might have been blackened and written upon with chalk or something similar. And yet it seemed to me odd to understand m?tsn? to be chalk. Does m?tsn? ever mean chalk in any other context ?  Surely m?tsn? is almost invariably mud or clay (of differing colours), often used for smearing ? This was what led me to the idea that m?tsn? might have been used for the kind of ?rubrication? effect by smearing with a coloured substance to highlight letters or words or colophon-florets. (By the way, I notice a few instances of such smearing of colophon-florets also on the 9th-century Nepalese manuscript that transmits the Ni?v?satattvasa?hit?, but they might of course have been added by some later user.)
But I have just now come across another intriguing passage that seems likely to throw light on the question, even if at the moment it perplexes me.  Perhaps colleagues on the list will have suggestions.
The passage in question is verse 134 of the immense 298-verse stela commemorating the foundation of the ?aiva temple known today as Pre Rup in 883 ?aka. It is, of course, part of a description of the king.
yad?ya? ?aram?tsn?bhir yya?a? k?mena k?ntijam
h?dya? h?di varastr???? lagna? likhitam ak?aram
C?d?s interpretation is this:
The glory that was born of his beauty, and that was pleasing to the heart, was a written character (ak?aram) that Kama had engraved indelibly (ak?aram) in the hearts of noble women with the powder of his arrows (?aram?tsn?bhi?).
(La gloire n?e de sa beaut?, et plaisante au c?ur, ?tait un caract?re d??criture que l?Amour avait grav? d?une fa?on ind?l?bile dans le c?ur des nobles femmes avec la poudre de ses fl?ches.)
This is fine as far as it goes.  The verse recalls the convention of heroes marking their arrows with names (usually their own) before shooting them, and there is an elegant play on ak?ara. But what can the ?powder of his arrows? be ?  Is there some arcanum of dhanu??stra that could explain this ? Or does the poet invite us to imagine simply that some clay or power was used to mark the name of the king upon the arrows that were then fired off by K?madeva ?  
But would not the compound ?aram?tsn?bhi? fit rather better here if it were a mukhacandra-type comparison-compound ? In that case m?tsn? could designate a writing instrument such as a stick of chalk or a slate pencil of the kind that Aditia Gunawan supposes might be referred to with the expression tanah (2015:263?264). In that case we might understand:
K?ma fixed as indelible (the letter that was) the heart-enflaming fame of his beauty [by rendering it] engraved in the hearts of lovely women by means of the pencils that were his arrows (?aram?tsn?bhi?).
This is attractive to me.  But then what of the ink (ma??) in the ??rama-charters. Should one suppose that an expression whose primary meaning was slate pencil or chalk stick came to be generalised to refer to any writing instrument, a bit like the word ?pen?, which no longer suggests the notion of ?feathers? to most people who use it?  In other words, could m?tsn? have come to mean ?stylus? in Cambodian Sanskrit ? In that case, we would have the leaves (riktapattr???), the blackening agent (ma??) and the writing instrument (m?tsn?) all referred to in the sentence of the ??rama-charters: riktapattra? ma??? m?tsn?? dady?d adhyet?s?dhave.
Suggestions welcome !
Dominic Goodall
?cole fran?aise d'Extr?me-Orient, Pondicherry
