JOB OPENING: Religion and Philosophy Bibliographer
THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO LIBRARY BIBLIOGRAPHER FOR RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY
The University of Chicago Library invites applicants for the position of Bibliographer for Religion and Philosophy. The Religion and Philosophy collections in the University of Chicago Library are among the strongest research collections in the nation. A full spectrum of library resources, from rare books and manuscripts to a full network of electronic resources, constitutes one of the distinctive strengths of the University of Chicago Library in meeting the diverse and changing needs of faculty, students and researchers in these fields.
The collections for which the Bibliographer is responsible support the research and teaching programs in the Divinity School, with its three committees and ten areas of study, and the Department of Philosophy. The Divinity School numbers some 36 faculty and over 300 graduate students of whom about 200 are in doctoral programs; the Philosophy Department counts 27 faculty with over 60 doctoral students. The University encourages interdisciplinary teaching and research and there is strong use of the religion and philosophy collections by faculty and students from area studies programs as well as many humanities and social science disciplines.
OVERVIEW OF RESPONSIBILITIES: The Bibliographer is responsible for public services and collection development for the Library's collections in religion and philosophy, developing, managing, and promoting Library collections in all formats. The position has primary responsibility for all religious traditions. To ensure coverage in these areas, the Bibliographer works closely with other selectors, especially area studies specialists. The Bibliographer provides public services, which include outreach, instruction, and reference for religion and philosophy, developing a program of library services that connects faculty, students and researchers with content in all formats. In that role the Bibliographer works closely with Library and University departments, especially the Divinity School and the Philosophy Department, to support the teaching and research needs of faculty and students.
For a complete description, see http://www.lib.uchicago.edu/e/jobs/librarianvacant.html
QUALIFICATIONS: Education: A graduate library degree from an accredited library school with graduate work in a subject area relevant to this position or a Ph.D. in one of the fields is required. Experience: Evidence of specialized bibliographic and reference work in religion and philosophy is essential. Significant experience in a research library performing collection development, reference, cataloging, or acquisitions work is required. A demonstrated knowledge of current trends and methodologies in scholarship and higher education as they relate to the use of libraries and primary sources is required. Languages: Reading knowledge of classical Hebrew and two Western European languages (preferably German and French) required. Some knowledge of Latin, Italian, Spanish, and Biblical Greek preferred. Skills: Candidates must demonstrate an ability to work effectively with faculty, students and staff and possess excellent skills in oral, written, and interpersonal communication. A high degree of computer literacy and a demonstrated interest in the application of information technologies in scholarly research are required.
SALARY AND BENEFITS: Appointment salary based on qualifications and experience. Full range of benefits included in total compensation package, with retirement plan, health insurance,
paid time off, and tuition benefit plan for college age and younger children.
To apply for this position, submit a profile, cover letter, CV, and reference contact information to https://academiccareers.uchicago.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=52033
Review of applications will begin upon receipt and continue until the position is filled. Applications received by February 17, 2012, will be assured consideration.
The University of Chicago is an Affirmative Action / Equal Opportunity Employer.
