sad new: Frits Staal
I send this note both to the Indology List and to the RISA list [with
apologies for cross-posting].
As one of Frits's students, I too was very saddened to read the email
from Michael Witzel informing us of Frits's passing.  I would like to
contribute an anecdote about Frits that highlights his generosity.
A few years ago when Frits returned to the USA to give a tour of
lectures in conjunction with the publication of his last book
*Discovering the Vedas,* I was invited to join a panel discussion at
Yale University to discuss Frits's famous and [for some] controversial
notion of "the meaninglessness of ritual."  When I arrived he greeted
me warmly [as always!] and introduced me to the other panelists, to
Phyllis Granoff [Frits's dear friend and the organizer of our
conference], and to everyone else who was present, whether or not
Frits actually knew them at all well himself.
After all of these pleasantries were completed, in due ritual fashion,
of course, Frits pulled me aside for a moment of private conversation.
 "Here," he said, as he picked up a big heavy object, wrapped
carefully in a lovely piece of Thai hand-woven cloth.   What was
wrapped in that cloth was a rare de luxe edition of Gordon Wasson's
famous book on Soma.  Frits told me that he had been giving away
portions of his personal library, some to friends and family, and some
to the Princess of Thailand, who was a Sanskrit scholar and a
supporter of Sanskrit scholars.  Frits wanted me to have this book for
two reasons.  First, he wanted to encourage me to pursue my Soma
researches.  He told me that he knew of no one who could make better
use of this book than I could [what a very kind compliment!].  Second,
he told me that the book might be valuable in the rare book market,
and that if I ever found myself in dire straits [very possible, in my
case!], I might be able to sell it for a lot of money.
Then he begged me not to tell him if I ever did sell this treasure,
and I promised him that I never would sell it.  And I won't.
I have given Frits some guru-daksinaa in a few published articles, one
about his work, and another on Soma, inspired by him.  But I have
received far more from him than I will ever be able to give back to
him.
To tell the truth, in the early days Frits and I fought a lot [mostly
because I was a rebellious brat].  But in these later days, we were
content to agree to disagree about those little things.  About the big
Vedic picture, we generally agreed.
He taught me well, and for that I hereby thank him.
Sincerely,
George Thompson
On Mon, Feb 20, 2012 at 10:56 AM, amba kulkarni <ambapradeep at gmail.com> wrote:
