VAP in Religions of India, 2012-13
Dear colleagues,
I would be very grateful if you would circulate the job advertisement
pasted below for a one-year fulltime visiting position in religions of
India for 2012-13 to any potentially interested candidates.
Thank you,
Anthony Cerulli
Hobart & William Smith Colleges
The Department of Religious Studies at Hobart and William Smith Colleges
invites applications for a one-year fulltime visiting faculty position with
a specialty in religions of India and a topical focus on women in religion,
gender and religion or LGBTQIA studies and religion.  Candidates using
social scientific approaches are encouraged to apply. The position will
begin in the Fall of 2012. This is a leave replacement position. A strong
commitment to teaching is required. Duties include teaching six
undergraduate religious studies courses over two semesters, including at
least two introductions of Hinduism. Experience with and/or interest in
working in a multicultural environment are highly desirable.
Candidates with a Ph.D. in religious studies or related field by August
2012 are strongly preferred but A.B.D. with teaching experience will be
considered.
The Department of Religious Studies has six full-time faculty and a history
of innovative teaching and the promotion of independent learning. The
Department's web site is http://www.hws.edu/academics/relst/
*APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS:*
An application should include a cover letter, a C.V., a statement of
teaching philosophy, three letters of recommendation (at least one
including comments on teaching), and a graduate transcript (scanned copy
acceptable). Questions about the position can be addressed to: Professor
Richard Salter salter at hws.edu .
Evaluation of applications begins March 14, 2012 and will continue until
the position is filled. Please submit your materials, and have your
recommenders submit their letters by mail to:
Professor Richard C. Salter
Department of Religious Studies
300 Pulteney Street
Geneva, NY 14456
 EOE
Hobart and William Smith Colleges are committed to attracting and
supporting faculty and staff that fully represent the racial, ethnic, and
cultural diversity of the nation and actively seek applications from
under-represented groups. The Colleges do not discriminate on the basis of
race, color, religion, sex, marital status, national origin, age,
disability, veteran's status, sexual orientation, gender identity and
expression or any other protected status.
Hobart and William Smith Colleges are a highly selective residential
liberal arts institution located in a small, diverse city in the Finger
Lakes region of New York State.  With an enrollment of approximately 2,200,
the Colleges offer 62 majors and minors from which students choose two
areas of concentration, one of which must be an interdisciplinary program.
Creative and extensive programs of international study and public service
are also at the core of the Colleges? mission.
