World Sanskrit Conference in Delhi Jan. 2012
Posted on behalf of my successor as Secretary General of the IASS,  
Jayandra Soni.
John Brockington
Professor J. L. Brockington
Vice President, International Association of Sanskrit Studies
For your kind Information !!! with apologies for multiple postings.
The International Association of Sanskrit Studies (IASS) has been
organising a World Sanskrit Conference (WSC) almost every 3 years
since 1972 when it was first held in Delhi. The  15th WSC was held in
India again (for the fourth time) from January 5-10 2012 in
conjunction with the deemed university Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan,  
Delhi (see:
http://www.sanskrit.nic.in/IASS/HOME_page.htm  for the full list of WSCs).
The conference in Delhi was marked by punctuality and convenience
couched in incomparable Indian hospitality. The delicious common
meals -for more than a thousand participants- and the daily
cultural programmes kept most of us together for most of the day.
There were 20 sections (e.g. grammar, linguistics, Buddhist studies,
Jain Studies, philosophies, modern Sanskrit Studies) apart from 12
individual panels (e.g. Models and Theories in Sanskrit Grammar and
Linguistics, Tantric/Agamic Traditions, Boundaries of Yoga in Indian  
Philosophical Literature).
Pandit sammelans/get-togethers were impressive for the spontaneous erudition
in Sanskrit. It was also intriguing to witness many papers in  
Sanskrit, and especially discussions cum questions/answers off the  
cuff. The large number of those who did this demonstrated that  
Sanskrit is indeed very much alive, and this was quite striking to  
witness.
See http://www.sanskrit.nic.in/wsc3315.pdf pp. 6?7 for the full programme.
The venue, Vigyan Bhavan in Delhi is well-equipped for such an
undertaking where up to five concurrent sessions took place. Credit
for this feat of  organisational skill accommodating the more than 1000
participants goes to  Professor Radhavallabh Tripati and his
organising committee.
The Prime Minister Honourable Dr Manmohan Singh inaugrated the Conference
with the Minister of Human Resource Hon'ble Shri Kapil Sibal chairing
the session. For the valedictory function Hon'ble Dr. Karan Singh MP
was the guest of honour chaired by Hon?ble Mrs Sheila Dikshit, the
Chief Minister of Delhi.
The next two WSCs will be held in Bangkok (2015) and Vancouver (2018).
Jay Soni
Jayandra Soni, Ph.D.
Department of Indology and Tibetology
Philipps-Universitaet Marburg
Deutschhausstr. 12, Marburg
D-35032 Germany
http://www.uni-marburg.de/fb10/iksl/indologie/fachgebiet/mitarbeiter/soni
Telephone: +49-6421-282 4942
Telefax: +49-6421-282 4995
Secretary General, International Association of Sanskrit Studies
Elected January 2012 in Delhi
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
