Hindu idea of "hidden" verses in heaven
?
?
15f12
Dear
All,
I am
reluctantly intervening just to add some links in the debate. 
The
written archetypal book is not an original Indian concept. I just remind of the
Golden Quran in heaven that served as the model for the holy book on earth. No
such concept existed in India. What existed is the concept of the pristine Dharman..
See Nirukta 1.20. The sages knew the Dharman directly and made them into sermons.
It is the decay of the age that made them compile the sermons into (oral) books
called Veda and Ved??ga.
A
heavenly book has not come into picture. And the written book is not a thing recognized
by the scriptures.
The
concept of an unedited undivided Veda do make itself felt. That is a common
concept among traditional scholars. But that is more the oral vidy?s than the oral book. The Nirukta idea is not different.
The fate
of another concept too is not a much discussed thing. The three heavenly and one
earthly quarter of speech (and Puru?a,
Vir?? etc)
gave way to one heavenly and three lower quarters. The metamorphosis started in
the B?had?ra?yaka and Ch?ndogya and was complete in the
Maitr?.
The older idea persisted till the G?t?but the M????kya?s lucid description, richly
influenced by late Mah?y?na ideas, gave the inverted one a
shape acceptable to Gau?ap?da and later to ?a?kara. ?This may sound like heresy but is true (JIP 1978: 1-34).
Sorry
for the long lecture. 
Best
DB
?
?
?
?
 From: Robert Goldman <rpg at CALMAIL.BERKELEY.EDU>
Sent: Tuesday, 14 February 2012 11:33 PM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Hindu idea of "hidden" verses in heaven
I believe the idea may be traced back as far as Rgveda 1.164.45 where it is said that sacred speech is divided into four quarters three of which are hidden while only the fourth is spoken by humans.
Cheers.
On Feb 14, 2012, at 7:38 AM, Michael Slouber wrote:
Dear Dean and others,
Dr. R. P. ?Goldman
Professor of Sanskrit
Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies
MC # 2540
The University of California at Berkeley
Berkeley, CA 94720-2540
Fax: 510-642-2409
