scholarships
The Graduate Programme for Transcultural Studies of the Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context" at Heidelberg University welcomes applications for eight doctoral scholarships, subject to budgetary approval of the Cluster for the second funding period in the Excellence Initiative of the German central and state governments. A decision is expected by June 16, 2012. In case of success, the new funding period would start on November 1, 2012.
The programme offers a monthly scholarship of 1.000 Euro. It further supports scholarship holders in framing their research through advanced courses and individual supervision and mentoring. Half of the scholarships are reserved for young scholars from Asia.
Applicants are expected to propose a doctoral project with a strong affiliation to the research framework of the Cluster. They must hold an M.A. or equivalent in a discipline of the humanities or social sciences with an above-average grade. Applications, including a CV, a letter of intention, a project proposal, a schedule for the dissertation, and two referees for recommendation are submitted through an Online Application System.
After an initial evaluation and selection, applicants will be asked to get in contact with possible supervisors at the Cluster of Excellence to discuss their project proposal. Following a positive decision on the second funding period in June, the most promising applicants would be invited to present their projects to the selection committee in Heidelberg. Subsequently the scholarship holders would be selected.
The deadline for applications is May 15, 2012.
For more information about the Graduate Programme for Transcultural Studies and the scholarships see: http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/gpts or send an e-mail to: application-gpts at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de.
We would be grateful if you circulate this email among prospective candidates.
Oliver Lamers, Graduate Programme Manager
Alexander Haentzschel, Press Officer
The Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context" is an interdisciplinary network of researchers at Heidelberg University. About 200 scholars examine the processes of cultural entanglements between Asia and Europe from a global perspective.
http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/
Prof. Dr. Axel Michaels
Acting Director Excellence Cluster "Asia and Europe in a Global Context", Sprecher des SFB 619 ("Ritualdynamik")
Universit?t Heidelberg, S?dasien-Institut, Im Neuenheimer Feld 330, D-69120 Heidelberg
http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/ -- www.ritualdynamik.uni-hd.de -- http://www.sai.uni-heidelberg.de/abt/IND/index.html
Emails: sek-michaels at uni-heidelberg.de (SAI office) -- Axel.Michaels at urz.uni-heidelberg.de (official and personal) -- michaels at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de (Cluster mail)
