Workshop on Trika Philosophy - ICPR - Level 2
Posted on behalf of Professor Navjivan Rastogi: (Indian Council of Philosophical Research) -
The eleven days Workshop will be organized by the ICPR at its Academic Centre, Lucknow from May 28 to June 8, 2012 with Professor Navjivan Rastogi as the Director of the Workshop. The Workshop aims at introducing the Trika Philosophy. The word ?Trika? stands for the monistic tradition/s of the tantric saivism of Kashmir (of medieval India, specially 9th ? 12th centuries) subscribed to and nourished by the contributions of Abhinavagupta, one of the foremost Indian thinker and his entire lineage. The system challenged the established paradigms of Indian philosophical thinking and reformulated a life-affirming world-view revolutionizing philosophical responses to the core issues, extending from soteriology, logic, epistemology to language, fine arts, aesthetics and social ethos.
Unfortunately, since the traditional guru-shishya-parampara is extinct and the serious Indian scholarship of the gone-by generation represented by Laksman Joo, Gopinath Kaviraj and K.C. Pandey is no longer around, the ICPR decided to acquaint the scholars with the fundamentals of the Trika, that is, the Kashmir Saivism, otherwise known as pratyabhijna school. The first level Workshop was conducted last year under the directorship of Professor Rastogi, who is a doyen of Kashmir Saivism in India. The present Workshop, which may be called second level Workshop, will be broadly a text-cum-theme-based focusing on Ishwarapratyabhijna karika of Utpaladeva in the light of Abhinavagupta?s Vimarsini. The two sessions, per day, will be from 10.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. with one and half hours? break. The Workshop will be conducted by Professor Navjivan Rastogi together with several other eminent scholars of India.
The Workshop will be open to all those who are interested in Kashmir Shaivism. Independent researchers with publication in the field also may apply for the course. Faculty members and research scholars in the departments of philosophy, Indian philosophy, Departments of Sanskrit with philosophy as one of its courses (including Sanskrit Universities) and also those who are connected with academic centres and institutions operating in the similar field will be eligible to apply.
The number of participants would be limited to twenty-five. The expenses for travel by 3rd class A/C, boarding and lodging and course-literature would be borne by the ICPR. Those scholars who attended the Workshop last year, if selected, should bring the course materials provided last year. The intending participants may apply by 31st March on the ICPR?s form which could be downloaded from its website <www.icpr.in> Alternatively they may send applications by post with their CV highlighting their academic credentials with research interest and area of specialization to Dr. Arun Mishra, Director, ICPR, Academic Centre, 3/9 Vipul Khand, Gomtinagar, Lucknow - 226 010 or by email at <icprlkw at gmail.com> by 31st March 2012. The names of the selected candidates will be posted on the ICPR website and effort will be made to inform the selected candidates individually by email. For any clarification office of ICPR Academic Centre may be contacted at 0522-2392636 or by email at above noted email address.
??
The details of the course work, list of resource persons etc. will be posted in the ICPR website in due course.
Dr. Arun Mishra Director, ICPR Academic Centre 3/9 Vipul Khand, Gomti Nagar Lucknow
