Publication Announcement (Results of a Text-Related Kashmir Panel              )
Just released:
Studia Indologica Universitatis Halensis, Volume 4:
Steiner, Roland (ed.): Highland Philology. Results of a Text-Related  
Kashmir Panel at the 31st DOT, Marburg 2010. Halle (Saale):  
Universit?tsverlag Halle-Wittenberg 2012, pp. 201. ISBN  
978-3-86977-040-6 (Hardbound) 59,- EUR.
http://www.universitaetsverlag-halle-wittenberg.de/english/new-books/highland-philology.html
The announced volume is a collection of textual studies on various  
features of the history and culture of Kashmir. It is mainly based on  
revised versions of lectures delivered at a ?Kashmir panel? held on  
the 22nd of September 2010 at the 31st German Oriental Conference  
(Deutscher Orientalistentag = DOT) in Marburg.
It deals with the transfer of India's sacred geography to the  
highlands of Kashmir in a miniaturized form (Walter Slaje), a  
previously unnoticed recording of an appearance of Halley's Comet in  
Kashmir by the poet-historian ?r?vara (Walter Slaje), the historical  
traces of vocal and instrumental music (sa?g?ta) in Kashmir  
(Advaitavadini Kaul), as well as with the poetical figure bh????le?a  
(simultaneous expression of different meanings in two or more  
languages) as a peculiarity of Kashmiri writers and critics (Michael  
Hahn). Further subjects are the formation of a specifically Kashmiri  
literary genre -- the Kashmiri kath? -- and the development of a  
special style connected to it (Luther Obrock), and the question, when,  
where and why did Bha??a Jayanta write his Ny?yama?jar? (Walter Slaje).
The last four contributions are about different aspects of the  
Mok?op?ya/Yogav?si??ha literature: John Shore?s lost translation of a  
Persian version of the so-called Laghuyogav?si??ha which he already  
wrote in 1784 (J?rgen Hanneder), the special character of the fourth  
book (Sthitiprakara?a) of the Mok?op?ya (Roland Steiner), and the  
meaning of single words (aragha??a, sa?s?racakra, ko?ak?ra) used in  
the Mok?op?ya (Martin Straube). A reply to a review of a partial  
edition of Bh?skaraka??ha?s Mok?op?ya??k? along with general remarks  
on the ?indological culture of debate? (J?rgen Hanneder and Walter  
Slaje) completes the volume.
Kind regards,
Roland Steiner
Dr. Roland Steiner
Martin-Luther-Universit?t Halle-Wittenberg
Seminar f?r Indologie
Emil-Abderhalden-Str. 9
D-06099 Halle (Saale)
Tel.: +49-345-55-23656
Fax.: +49-345-55-27211
E-Mail: roland.steiner at indologie.uni-halle.de
