Book announcement: Re-use: The Art and Politics of Integration              and Anxiety
Dear Colleagues and Friends,
I would like to share with you information on a book, which I have edited
together with a colleague of mine, Prof. Subrata K. Mitra, on the subject of
re-use in art history and political sciences. It has been published by SAGE
India. Please find the information below:
Re-Use - The Art and Politics of Integration and Anxiety
by? Julia A B Hegewald and Subrata K Mitra (eds.)
February 2012?? 360 pages?? SAGE Publications Pvt. Ltd??
Hardcover ISBN: 9788132106555
?47.50,   $60.00,   Rs?1500
Presented here is a novel approach to understanding the relationship between
the past and the present using the unique concept of re-use, wherein
elements from the past are strategically adapted into the present, and thus
become part of a new modernity. The book uses this method as a heuristic
tool for analyzing and interpreting cultural and political changes and the
transnational flow of ideas, concepts and objects. The chapters apply this
concept to South Asia but the concept of re-use and the method of its
application are both general and amenable to cross-cultural and comparative
analysis.
Re-use is a collection of well-researched and lucidly written scholarly
articles that apply the concept of re-use to different aspects of cultural,
political and material life?from art, architecture and jewelry to religion,
statesmen and legislatures. By not treating artistic, political, religious
and cultural developments as linear evolutions, this book encourages readers
to understand them as a continuous modification of the past and a periodic
return to earlier forms.
Beautifully illustrated with exquisite images, and containing a scholarly
bibliography pointing in the direction of hitherto unexplored terrain, this
new text will be a source of inspiration to the specialist and a source of
delight to the general reader.
Table of Contents
Preface
1. Art and Politics: The Dialectics of Duality, Affinity and Confluence
            Julia A. B. Hegewald and Subrata K. Mitra
2. Towards a Theory of Re-use: Desecration, Retro and Fake Versus
            Improvement, Innovation and Integration
            Julia A. B. Hegewald
3. The Past in the Present: Temple Conversions in Karnataka and
Appropriation 
            and Re-use in Orissa
             Julia A. B. Hegewald and Subrata K. Mitra
4. Chola and Neo-Chola Temple Architecture in and around Kumbakonam, Tamil
Nadu
            George Michell
5. Indian Jewellery and 19th-Century Britain: Evolving Patterns of Re-use
            Nick Barnard
6. Re-use in the Yakshagana Theatre of Coastal Karnataka
            Katrin Binder
7. Indian Painting at the Beginning of the Twentieth Century: Modernism and
            Re-use of Ancient Pictorial Traditions
            Tiziana Lorenzetti
8. Politics of Art and the Art of Politics: Re-use of ?Tribal? Arts and
Artefacts in 
            Modern Orissa
            Prasanna K. Nayak
9. Another Form of Re-use?: Institutional Continuity and ?Indigenisation? of
            Westminster Parliamentarism and Western Party Politics in
Post-colonial India
                Clemens Spiess
10. Myth, Idea, Dream and Vision: Nehru?s Discovery of India
            Jivanta Sch?ttli
11. Use and Re-use of ?Pakistan? in the Indian Muslim Press (1932-1947)
        Thierry DiCostanzo
12. Buddhism and Collective Emancipation in Modern India: A Sociological
            Investigation of B.  R. Ambedkar?s Re-use of Buddha?s Dharma in
the Dalit 
            movement
             Edward A. Rodrigues
13. ?The Jain Way of Life:? Modern Re-use and Re-interpretation of Ancient
Jain 
            Concepts
            Sabine Scholz
14. Icons, Nations and Re-use: Marianne, France, and Bharat Mata, India
            Subrata K. Mitra and Lion K?nig
Glossary
List of Plates
Bibliography
Notes on Contributors
Index
Prof. Dr. Julia A. B. Hegewald
Professor of Oriental Art History
Head of Department
University of Bonn
Institut fuer Orient- und Asienwissenschaften (IOA)
Abteilung fuer Asiatische und Islamische Kunstgeschichte
Adenauerallee 10
D ? 53113 Bonn
Germany
Email: julia.hegewald at uni-bonn.de
www.aik.uni-bonn.de
Fax. 0049-228-73 4042
