Positions for Sanskrit Library assistants
Research Associates sought for digital Sanskrit Library project
The Sanskrit Library <http://sanskritlibrary.org> seeks two research
associates for one year, from 1 June 2012 to 31 May 2013, to assist in
digital Sanskrit library development projects.
The Sanskrit Library <http://sanskritlibrary.org> is a collaborative
enterprise to build a digital Sanskrit library by integrating manuscript
images, texts, linguistic software, and digital Sanskrit lexical sources.
 In its first major project The Sanskrit
Library<http://sanskritlibrary.org> integrated
a large archive of digitized Sanskrit texts with the digital Monier
Williams dictionary to provide immediate access to the dictionary by
clicking words in a ????? of the text.  A nearly completed project creates
a digital manuscript catalogue and provides focused access to Sanskrit
manuscripts by correlating digital manuscript images with corresponding
texts.  A current project (Project 1), entitled, "Sanskrit Lexical Sources:
Digital Synthesis and Revision," integrates major bilingual and monolingual
Sanskrit dictionaries, traditional thesauri, and specialized lexical
resources in a single lookup interface.  A new project (Project 2)
beginning this year entitled, "Bringing ancient Indian semantic and
syntactic theory face to face with contemporary computational linguistics,"
creates a morphologically and syntactically tagged corpus of Sanskrit texts
by semi-automatically tagging existing unmarked digital texts.  In
collaboration with other members of the Sanskrit Computational Linguistics
Consortium, the project produces a parser combining the most successful
elements of parsing software developed so far, provisionally tags texts,
and displays them in an interface that allows manual correction by an
expert in Sanskrit knowledgable in Sanskrit linguistic terminology.
The task of the research associate in Project 1 will be to correct the
association of headwords in various dictionaries with each other and to
analyze and make corrections in lists of words not found in the lexical
sources.
The task of the research associate in Project 2 will be to select the
correct morphological and syntactic tags for words in their specific
contexts in a digital interface that displays a provisional selection and a
list of alternate choices.
Both positions require the following abilities:
   - fluency in reading Sanskrit texts of various genres and historical
   periods
   - familiarity with the lexical, grammatical, and syntactic terminology
   of both the indigenous Indian linguistic tradition and contemporary
   European Indology and linguistics, and
   - facility working in the digital medium.
It is expected that applicants meet the following qualifications:
   - currently hold or be near to completing a doctoral degree or
   equivalent in Sanskrit, preferably in ???????
   - have experience working in a digital project, and
   - be fluent in English.
The applicants are expected to be able to work individually as well as to
coordinate with the project director and collaborating indologists,
linguists, and computer scientists.  The positions carry a stipend of
between INR 24,000--30,000 per month, depending upon the qualifications and
rank of the applicant.  The positions will be housed in one of the
collaborating institutions in India in Hyderabad, Mumbai, New Delhi, or
Pune.
Apply by sending the following materials to the project director (Peter
Scharf) via email (peter.scharf at univ-paris-diderot.fr) with the subject
heading, "Sanskrit Library Assistant":
   - a r?sum? detailing your education, publications, presentations, and
   employment in the field of Sanskrit and relevant disciplines (such as
   linguistics, computer science, or other languages)
   - a description of your relevant experience with links to products
   produced
   - a clear indication of your role and responsibility in their production
   (whether you are exclusively responsible or the manner and extent of your
   responsibility), and
   - the names and contact information of three references.
All applications received by 10 May 2012 will be granted full consideration.
