Sanskrit Position Announcement
I wanted to bring to your attention the following announcement of an open rank position in Sanskrit at The University of Texas.  You are welcome to contact me for further information.
Joel
Joel Brereton
Associate Professor of Asian Studies
The University of Texas at Austin
Position in Sanskrit Language and Literature
The Department of Asian Studies at the University of Texas at Austin invites applications for a tenured, open-rank faculty position in Sanskrit language and literature anticipated to start in Fall 2013. Applicants should hold a Ph.D. in a relevant field with demonstrable doctoral-level training in the language, and with disciplinary training in religious studies or cultural history. Experience teaching Sanskrit at the advanced level is required. Research competence in a second South Asian language (preferably classical Tamil or Malayalam) or in a classical language of East Asia (preferably Chinese or Tibetan) is desired, but not required. Successful applicant must have a strong interest in both undergraduate and graduate teaching, a superior record of research and service, and an exemplary teaching record at the university level. Duties include teaching at all levels of our curriculum, directing dissertations, M.A. reports, and honors theses, publishing actively, and offering service to the Department, the College of Liberal Arts, and the University. Salary is competitive and dependent upon qualifications and experience. 
	Interested persons should submit a letter of interest, detailed curriculum vitae including academic and professional experience, and the names, addresses, and contact information of three or more references to: Sanskrit Search Committee Chair, Department of Asian Studies, The University of Texas at Austin, 120 Inner Campus Drive, Mail Code: G9300, Austin, Texas 78712-1251. Review of applications will begin September 1, 2012, and will continue until the position is filled.  There will be a background check on the applicant selected.  The University of Texas at Austin is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
