Fwd: [INDOLOGY] Mangala- title for brahmin physicians
Dominik,
As regards D.S. Sircar's conclusions, his statement in footnote 5 that "The village Vaidyas in South India are barbers," gives us the underlying reason for his conclusions. Similar belief in barbers alone being the Tamil Vaidyas seems to have influenced E. Hultzsch more than a century ago and Y. Subbarayalu recently. In his book "South India Under the Cholas", p. 52, Subbarayalu says: 
"Another piece of somewhat tantalizing evidence comes from a Tanjavur inscription of R?jar?ja I, which refers to an almost similar title, Pa?chavan-ma?gala-p?raraiyan . It is interesting to note that E. Hultzsch has translated this title as ' the great lord of the barbers of the P???ya king'. Araiyan Bavaruddiran, who held this title is said to have been assigned the duty of k?linamai. Unfortunately, there is no known lexical authority to interpret the significance of the term k?linamai. Perhaps this is related to k?l or kattari-k?l meaning scissors. In any case it may have something to do with medical practice as the immediately preceding functionary is an amba??a  (that is, ambash?a) with the title R?jar?ja-pray?gada-araiyan. Pray?ga in Sanskrit means, among other things, application of medicine and ambash?a in Sanskrit is a Vaidya too."
Unfortunately, barbers are not the only Tamil Vaidyas. (Our own family Vaidya was a Vaishnava Brahmin.) Moreover, Hultszch and Subbarayalu have neglected to discuss an important piece of information in the Tanjavur inscription that Subbarayalu mentions above. See South Indian Inscriptions, vol.2, no.66 at http://tinyurl.com/6w82txp
. If you scroll down, the relevant lines to be noted are 497 and 498. Line 497 does not have any word to indicate that the person was a barber. Hultzsch has made that assumption based on the 'mangala' title. (The person Subbarayalu calls 'the immediately preceding functionary' is actually mentioned in the following line, no. 498.) As for line 498, the word 'Amba??a?' is there. But so is the word '?a?a?gavi' ('Ca?a?kavi' according to Tamil Lexicon system of transliteration) meaning 'Sha?a?gavid'.  Hultzsch had ascribed the meaning 'barber' to the word 'Amba??a?' based on its usage in modern times not realizing that it could have referred to a different person in the 11th century. But in doing so, he has discounted the significance of the word '?a?a?gavi' which refers to 'one well-versed in the six Ved??gas' and usually refers to Brahmins. If Hultzsch was reluctant to consider the person as a Brahmin because his gotra was not mentioned, it should be noted that in inscriptions there are many instances when a Brahmin's gotra is not mentioned as in (SII vol.2, no.31). If '?a?a?gavi' is taken to refer to the person's expertise in Ved??gas, then we have an one part-name, K??, as the proper name of the person instead of the often-expected father's name followed by the person's given name. But if we look at many 'Sha?a?gavid' names in SII vol.2, no. 99, we find many Sha?a?gavids with an one-part given name. For instance, see donee number 7 in the table in http://tinyurl.com/788vq9d . 
As for Hultzsch's assumption (which is followed by Subbarayalu) that the ma?gala/ma?kala title refers to barbers, we should note that in 1016-17 CE, a person by the name, K?atriya?ikh?ma?i Va?an??tu Brahmadeya Marucaln???u P?tann?r Va??ak Ka??uvan Araiyan P?curan-ampalavan Ma?kalaperaraiyan, was given some land and house-site so that he and his descendants could provide Vaidya services. Here Ka??uvan refers to K??va gotra. It is absolutely clear that the donee was a Brahmin with a 'ma?gala'/'ma?kala' title, who provided medical services  
In summary, any conclusion that Tamil/South Indian barbers went to Bengal and became Vaidyas is untenable if it is only based on the presence of 'Amba??an' or 'mangala'/'ma?kala' in the names of such persons.
Regards,
Palaniappan
