Rajayoga
Dear Dermot and other members of the list,
As Prof. Slaje points out, my colleague Jason Birch's recent article is a fine survey of the use of the word ha?ha in the context of yoga. Since ha?ha is almost always found in conjunction with r?ja yoga, Jason's article discusses r?jayoga too.
The compound r?jayoga suffers from the ambiguity inherent in the word yoga itself: it can mean both the practice of yoga and the goal. In the majority of its occurrences in ha?hayogic literature (which is, I think, the only type of Sanskrit literature in which it is found) it means simply sam?dhi. Occasionally it does refer to a specific type of yoga practice. In these instances it is meant to denote the best variety of yoga and so its use is comparable to that made popular by Vivekananda et al. - "my yoga is better than yours". (By the way, according to my notes - I don't have the books with me - Singleton 2008:84, referencing de Michelis 2004, writes that it was probably M.N.Dvivedi in a Yogas?tra translation of 1890 who first popularised the equation of r?jayoga with P?ta?jalayoga.) Thus in the Amanaska, which Jason is editing, it refers to a technique said to bring about the no-mind state. But in the Ha?savil?sa, for example, r?jayoga is a practice that involves ritual sex (and is said to be much better than ha?hayoga, which Ha?sami??hu, like many other medieval/early modern authors, sees as including Pata?jali's yoga).
The Yogatattvopani?ad (c.17th-century) passage you cite is taken directly from the Datt?treyayoga??stra (c. 13th-century), as is most of the rest of the YTU.
Re the mah?p?lavidhi: since the first attestation of the compound r?jayoga (of which I am aware) is not for another thousand years or so, it seems unlikely that there is a connection between the two. The one nirukti of r?jayoga of which I am aware (but Jason may know of others) does not understand it as meaning "the yoga of kings": ra?jatva?t sarvayoga?na?m? ra?jayoga iti smr?tah? | ra?ja?nam? di?pyama?nam? tam? parama?tma?nam avyayam? | dehinam? pra?payed yas tu ra?jayogah? sa ucyate (Amanaskayoga 2.4).
Yours, with best wishes,
Jim
On 3 May 2012, at 10:55, Dermot Killingley wrote:
