Rajayoga
Dear Dermot, Jim and members of the list,
please allow me to clear up an inaccuracy which found its way in my book, and was echoed by Jim as expressed in his email below.
As Jim points out, I stated that Vivekananda played a pioneering role in defining r?jayoga
asYogas?tra-type meditative practice as opposed to
other forms of yoga,and especially ha?ha. Georg Feuerstein correctly pointed out in a
review of my book(http://www.traditionalyogastudies.com/reviews_yoga_modern-yoga.html)that such a distinction, and in the same terms, is
already made byVij??nabhik?u in his Yogas?rasa?graha (which as many of you will know is a work attempting to summarise and and explain the Yogas?tra and Vy?sabh?sya). The translationof that passage (:55 in English; : 39 in Sanskrit in the same book) goes:
?
"We do not enter into the details of Postures,
because our subjectmatter is _Raja-Yoga_ (in which postures occupy only a
secondaryposition). For a full treatment of all forms of
postures and thepurification of the veins and arteries we refer the
reader to works on_Hatha-Yoga_. Postures have been described."
?
Here are the full biblio details of the book from the
Bodleian Library(Oxford) records:
?
Author ??????????? Vij??nabhiksu,
16th cent.
Uniform Title ??????????? Yogas?rasangraha.
English & Sanskrit
Title ??????????? Yogas?rasangraha
/ Vij??nabhiksupran?ta ; anuv?daka Gang?n?tha Jh?
Edition ??????????? Punarmudrita
samskarana
Publisher ??????????? Dill?i
: Caukhamb? Samskrta Pratisth?na, 1992
Description ??????????? 102,
64 p. ; 22 cm
Series ??????????? Vrajaj?vana
pr?cya bh?rat? grantham?l? ; 6
Notes ??????????? Basic
tenets of the Yoga school in Hindu philosophy; includes
translation in English
English and Sanskrit
Reprint. Originally published: Madras : Theosophical
Pub. House, 1933
(T.P.H. oriental series ; no. 10)
Title on added t.p.: Yoga-s?ra-sangraha of
Vij??na-Bhiksu
Subjects ??????????? Yoga
Philosophy, Indic
Alternate Title ??????????? Yoga-s?ra-sangraha
of Vij??na-Bhiksu
Other Names ??????????? Jha,
Ganganatha, Sir, 1871-1941.
I plan to correct the above, and integrate the latest research on the this and related topics (such as Jim's and Jason's) in a second edition of my _History of Modern Yoga_ which is under discussion with the publishers.
With all good wishes,
Elizabeth De Michelis
Independent scholar
Cambridge, UK
 From: Jim Mallinson <jim at KHECARI.COM>
Sent: Thursday, 3 May 2012, 21:32
Re: [INDOLOGY] Rajayoga
Dear Dermot and other members of the list,
As Prof. Slaje points out, my colleague Jason Birch's recent article is a fine survey of the use of the word ha?ha in the context of yoga. Since ha?ha is almost always found in conjunction with r?ja yoga, Jason's article discusses r?jayoga too.
The compound r?jayoga suffers from the ambiguity inherent in the word yoga itself: it can mean both the practice of yoga and the goal. In the majority of its occurrences in ha?hayogic literature (which is, I think, the only type of Sanskrit literature in which it is found) it means simply sam?dhi. Occasionally it does refer to a specific type of yoga practice. In these instances it is meant to denote the best variety of yoga and so its use is comparable to that made popular by Vivekananda et al. - "my yoga is better than yours". (By the way, according to my notes - I don't have the books with me - Singleton 2008:84, referencing de Michelis 2004, writes that it was probably M.N.Dvivedi in a Yogas?tra translation of 1890 who first popularised the equation of r?jayoga with P?ta?jalayoga.) Thus in the Amanaska, which Jason is editing, it refers to a technique said to bring about the no-mind state. But in the Ha?savil?sa, for example, r?jayoga is
 a practice that involves ritual sex (and is said to be much better than ha?hayoga, which Ha?sami??hu, like many other medieval/early modern authors, sees as including Pata?jali's yoga).
The Yogatattvopani?ad (c.17th-century) passage you cite is taken directly from the Datt?treyayoga??stra (c. 13th-century), as is most of the rest of the YTU.
Re the mah?p?lavidhi: since the first attestation of the compound r?jayoga (of which I am aware) is not for another thousand years or so, it seems unlikely that there is a connection between the two. The one nirukti of r?jayoga of which I am aware (but Jason may know of others) does not understand it as meaning "the yoga of kings": ra?jatva?t sarvayoga?na?m? ra?jayoga iti smr?tah? | ra?ja?nam? di?pyama?nam? tam? parama?tma?nam avyayam? | dehinam? pra?payed yas tu ra?jayogah? sa ucyate (Amanaskayoga 2.4).
Yours, with best wishes,
Jim
On 3 May 2012, at 10:55, Dermot Killingley wrote:
