AW: [INDOLOGY] Indian philosophy as philosophy
I am wondering, though, to what extent the "no real philosophy to the east of the Suez" view is still advocated as a serious argument with real conviction (and thus still needs being addressed). This may vary between Russia and (for instance) Germany, of course. 
My more recent experiences with philosophers who were reluctant to engage with philosophical ideas from India suggest that fatigue and practical difficulties have become more prevalent - "oh, it's all very nice, it's certainly real systematic philosophy what you are telling us, but I can't be bothered with it because the day only has 24 hours and there is really so much of interest in Western philosophy which I can access without having to learn a language as difficult as Sanskrit". I haven't met any philosopher who seriously believes there is no Indian philosophy in quite some time (or read anything to that effect). Apart from this, I'm also wondering how seriously we still should take such claims, should we encounter them. Shouldn't the burden of knowledge long have been shifted to the other side? Should philosophers not be made to feel embarrassed for having such gaping holes in their general education such as not knowing of one of the great philosophical traditions of the world? 
Best regards, 
Birgit Kellner
Prof. Dr. Birgit Kellner
Chair of Buddhist Studies
Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context - Shifting Asymmetries in Cultural Flows"
University of Heidelberg
Karl Jaspers Centre
Vossstra?e 2, Building 4400
D-69115 Heidelberg
Phone: +49(0)6221 - 54 4301
Fax: +49(0)6221 - 54 4012
http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/home.html
Von: Indology [INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk] im Auftrag von Viktoria Lyssenko [vglyssenko at YANDEX.RU]
Gesendet: Montag, 4. Juni 2012 16:39
An: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Betreff: [INDOLOGY] Indian philosophy as philosophy
Dear indologists-philosophers,
While working at the Institute of philosophy I often come across europeocentrism as well as the arrogance of those of my colleagues who believe that philosophy is an exclusively Western phenomenon.  To make them change their mind or, at least, cast a glance beyond their horizon I have developed a number of apologetic arguments for Indian philosophy as a philosophy in its own right. Those who are interested may read the text of my lecture to a non-indological audience which is attached to this letter. I would like to suggest to those who have something to say on this subject to make a special issue of some journal (it is for you to decide which one).
With best regards,
Victoria Lysenko
Head of Oriental Department,
Institute of Philosophy
Russian Academy of Sciences
Moscow
