branding and children
This is not directly about the medical aspect, but there is a book examining the liceity of branding with religious emblems:
?
OCLC number 475470831Va?jasaneyinam-Upanayana Paddhati : [Taptamudran?kan-Sami?ks?a]Document Type:Book 
All Authors / Contributors:Ramdatta, Mahamaktak t??akur.; Ramchandra Jha 
Find more information about: Ramdatta, Mahamaktak t??akur. Ramchandra Jha   
OCLC Number:475470831 
Description:120 s. 
Series Title:Mithila? Granthmala, 11 
Responsibility:ed. with 'Indumati' commentary and notes by Pt Ramchandra Jha. 
?
I think but am not sure this is about using Vaishnava emblems (Zankha, GaDA, etc.).? You see the little brass wire implements for these insignia in antique stores.? I think they are sometimes used for branding, sometimes for marking the body with sandalwood.? D. D. Kosambi gave Horace Poleman a set to the Library of Congress.
?
It is also possible that in the course of a dharmashastric examination of the issue the medical aspects might be mentioned.? I have never read it so do not know.
?
If the above record does not transmit passibly well I will try again.
?
Allen
?
?
Sent: Monday, June 4, 2012 8:34 AM
[INDOLOGY] branding and children
Dear colleagues,
A third party has asked me for information on the practice of?branding as part of traditional medical practice in South Asia or in the Fijian Hindu community, especially in respect to children. Can anyone point me in the direction of useful material?
Many thanks
Adam
Dr Adam Bowles
Lecturer in Asian Religions
School of History, Philosophy, Religion and Classics
Faculty of Arts
The University of Queensland
Email:?a.bowles1 at uq.edu.au
Web:?http://www.uq.edu.au/hprc/dr-adam-bowles
?
Associate Editor,?South Asia: Journal of South Asian Studies
http://www.tandf.co.uk/journals/titles/00856401.asp?
CRICOS Provider Number: 00025B
This email is intended solely for the addressee. It may contain private or confidential information. If you are not the intended addressee, you must take no action based on it, nor show a copy to anyone.? Kindly notify the sender by reply email.? Opinions and information in this email which do not relate to the official business of The University of Queensland shall be understood as neither given nor endorsed by the University.
