Early Buddhist Scholasticism in India, Central Asia, and China
The conference will take place in ?Het Pand?, conference centre of Ghent University, on 8 and 9 July 2013.
Conference papers on the following topics are welcome:
-       Indian Abhidharma Systems
-       The adoption and adaptation of Indian Abhidharma in China
-       The translation of Indian Abhidharma texts into Chinese
-       Hermeneutical issues concerning the Chinese reception of Indian Buddhist texts
-       The formation of Abhidharma schools in China
-       Chinese Abhidharma masters
-       The Importance of Abhidharma for the development of Chinese Buddhist schools
-       Central Asian manuscript founds
-       ?
On the occasion of the 120th birthday of the appointment of Louis de La Vall?e Poussin as professor at Ghent University in 1893, also a panel on the life and work of this famous buddhologist will be organized on July 9 2013. [for Lamotte's portrait of LVP see: http://www2.academieroyale.be/academie/documents/deLAVALLEEPOUSSINLouisARB_196538457.pdf]
Should you decide to attend, please send us the abstract of your paper by October 31, 2012. Abstracts should be send in electronic form to: bart.dessein at UGent.be
The abstracts will be evaluated by a scientific committee, formed by three scholars in the field. Notification of acceptance of your paper for presentation at the conference will be done by November 30, 2012.
Attendance of the conference is free of conference fee for paper presenters.
 We will inform you on the possible funding of lodging expenses from our side at a later date. This funding depends on the approval of our application with the concerned institutions.
 The conference fee for non-paper-presenters is set at 70 Euro. For non-paper presenters, no lodging expenses will be covered.
 For more information, please contact Bart Dessein at bart.dessein at UGent.be
Warmest regards,
Prof. dr. Bart Dessein
Ghent Centre for Buddhist Studies
http://www.cbs.ugent.be/
Prof. Huimin Bhikshu
President, Dharma Drum Buddhist College
Prof. Weijen Teng
Coordinator, Dharma Drum Buddhist College
