Harappan script
A citation of one person's opinion cited ex cathedra ("the arguments brought forward by Farmer, Sproat, & Witzel... are not convincing") is supposed to be taken seriously as a scientific argument? 
Citations from linguists on the other side supporting us can be given just as easily, which doesn't prove anything either. 
Science isn't a matter of auctoritas.
Which is why I suggested we forgo another acrimonious open-ended discussion that repeats the same views constantly without any attempt to bring things to a resolution.
Many of the key arguments that we forwarded in our 2004 paper, found here
http://www.safarmer.com/fsw2.pdf
aren't even accurately summarized in the literature, let alone seriously discussed. It is the kind of paper, like so many others these days when information is bombarded at us so fast, that are downloaded (many hundreds of thousands of times since 2004, probably more than any other paper in the field) and talked about far more than read. 
The most recent odd comment about the so-called Indus script controversy is by Meadows and Kenoyer, in an essay included in Vol. 3 of the Corpus, who now leave it all in limbo and argue that it doesn't *matter* whether it was a script or not. 
Reference and discussion here:
http://www.safarmer.com/IndusValleyFantasies.pdf
With all due respect to my friend Richard Meadow, it matters a lot -- for reasons discussed in that long abstract. :^)
Please note that Asko's position on the "script" has radically changed as well due to our paper, as he generously acknowledged at the last Indus conference we attended together in Kyoto in 2009 (Parpola's "script" by then had turned into a "proto-script," which is a big change rom the views Asko had consistently put forward since the the 1960s; but note that we anticipated this argument too in our 2004 paper on pp. 33 ff.)
So true, things aren't "settled," or opinions at least aren't settled, on the issue. As I've long argued, what is needed now is a _Current Anthropology_ style discussion that forces all sides to respond point-by-point, in an iterative way, to the arguments rather than turning this into another shouting matching authorities against counter-authorities. 
We do plan that (a _Current Anthropology_ style article) for the next year, if we can as we hope free up the time.
'm convinced that the issue *can* be definitively settled this way. We have tried the other ways (e.g. the Conference funded in part by the National Science Foundation and the American Linguistic Society that Richard Sproat and I organized at Stanford in 2007, etc.) without luck, since we couldn't get Asko at the time to agree to the point-by-point discussion we proposed.
But the issue still *does* need to be settled, for many reasons, and I'm convinced it will happen at least in the next few years, via the _Current Anthropology_-type format.
Regards,
Steve Farmer
On Jun 19, 2012, at 3:11 PM, George Thompson wrote:
