Four Independent Research Groups to be established at Heidelberg              University
The Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context. The Dynamics
of Transculturality" at Heidelberg University invites applications for four
Independent Research Group Leaders.
An Independent Research Group (IRG) / Junior Research Group (JRG) will be
established in each of the four cluster research areas. Their role will be
to further develop the transcultural and transdisciplinary research
potential of the Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global
Context"; to strengthen its capabilities to handle transcultural issues that
cross cultural, geographic, linguistic and media borders, and to open career
paths in transcultural studies for promising PhD and post-doctoral
researchers. The project duration is three years with an option of a two
year extension depending on outstanding results and a high-quality follow-up
project.
Each group consists of three to four members and is led by a Group Leader
who is responsible for designing the group's project; helping to recruit
first-class Ph.D. candidates for the group; supervising the group's Ph.D.
candidates, and managing and monitoring the group's research activities as
well as its interactions with other Cluster research. The performance of the
IRG will be regularly evaluated.
Applicants are expected to have completed their Ph.D.; have a strong
publication record of high scholarly standard including a monograph with
elements connected to the Cluster's research agenda; achieved international
visibility within their field; and a proven track record of pursuing
transcultural and transdisciplinary approaches. The Cluster's language of
communication is English.
To analyze religious aspects of exchanges across cultural, geographic,
linguistic and media borders, the Cluster will establish one of the four IRG
in "Islamic Studies". We are looking for a scholar with a research focus in
Islam beyond the Arabic-speaking countries. The candidate should be able to
read and write one modern language used by Muslims. Competence in a
classical language (Arabic, Persian, Ottoman Turkish) would be desirable.  
To apply as an Independent Research Group Leader, please send a project
outline (5 pages) for the Research Group (Download of form:
www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/application-JRGL) and provide a CV, a
list and digital versions of your publications, a list of courses taught,
and the names and contact data of two scholars who are familiar with your
work.
The Cluster is an equal opportunities employer and encourages applications
from qualified women and men without discrimination.
Applications are to be submitted online at:
application-JRGL at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de
The deadline for application is September 15, 2012.
Applicants are advised to acquaint themselves with the Cluster's research
aims and framework at www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/research.html.
For further information please send an e-mail to the Cluster at
application-JRGL at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de.
Search Committee:
Steering Committee of the Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe"
Prof. Dr. Madeleine Herren-Oesch
Karl Jaspers Centre
Building 4400
Vo?stra?e 2
69115 Heidelberg
phone: ++49-6221-54 40 05
Fax: ++49-6221-54 40 12
Prof. Dr. Axel Michaels
Director Excellence Cluster "Asia and Europe in a Global Context", Sprecher des SFB 619 ("Ritualdynamik")
Universit?t Heidelberg, S?dasien-Institut, Im Neuenheimer Feld 330, D-69120 Heidelberg
http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/ -- www.ritualdynamik.uni-hd.de -- http://www.sai.uni-heidelberg.de/abt/IND/index.html
Emails: sek-michaels at uni-heidelberg.de (SAI office) -- Axel.Michaels at urz.uni-heidelberg.de (official and personal) -- michaels at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de (Cluster mail)
