>???From 2003, academic partner institutions from Germany, Austria
and Switzerland have contributed more than 300.000 EUR to support the
availability and further development of TUSTEP according to the needs
of research and of technical change in hardware and operating systems.
One of the conditions of the respective consortium agreement was that,
in the course of this cooperation, TUSTEP will be made available as an
open source product.

We are confident that TUSTEPs new status as an open source product
will help, with the aid of a larger interested community, to
overcome existing obstacles against its more widespread usability:
presently, both command language and documentation are available
in German only (work on an English version had to be stopped due
to lacking funds in the early 90ies).

TXSTEP, presently being developed in cooperation with Stuttgart
Media University, offers a new XML-based user interface to the
TUSTEP programs. Compared to the original TUSTEP commands,
we see important advantages:

- it will offer an up-to-date established syntax for scripting;
- it will show the typical benefits of working with
  an XML editor, like content completion, highlighting,
  showing annotations, and, of course, verifying the code;
- it will offer - to a certain degree - a self teaching
  environment by commenting on the scope of every step;
- it will help to avoid many syntactical errors, even compared
  to the original TUSTEP scripting environment;
- the syntax is in English, providing a more widespread usability
  than TUSTEP's German command language.

At the TEI conference last year in W?rzburg, we presented a
first prototype to an international audience. We look forward
to DH2012 in Hamburg next week where, during the Poster Session,
a more enhanced version which already contains most of TUSTEPs
functions will be presented. A demonstration of TXSTEPs
functionality will include tasks which can not easily be
performed by existing XML tools.

After the demo, you are invited to download a test version of
TXSTEP to play with, to comment on it and to help make it a
great and flexible tool for everyday - and complex - questions.

Best,
Wilhelm Ott

Prof. Dr. Wilhelm Ott               phone: +49-7071-987656
Universitaet Tuebingen              fax:   +49-7071-987622
c/o Zentrum fuer Datenverarbeitung  e-mail: wilhelm.ott at uni-tuebingen.de
Waechterstrasse 76
D-72074 Tuebingen

[snip]
----- End forwarded message -----

-- 
Richard MAHONEY - Indica et Buddhica

Littledene, Bay Road, OXFORD 7430, NZ
Mobile: +64-21-064-0216
Landline: +64-3-312-1699
r.mahoney at indica-et-buddhica.org

http://camera-antipodea.indica-et-buddhica.com
http://indica-et-buddhica.org




