Date of Bhavatr=?utf-8?Q?=C4=81ta?=
I have checked Asko Parpola's 1983 article, "The Passages of the Jaimin?ya ?rautas?tra Dealing with the Agnicayana, together with Bhavatr?ta's Commentary," in Agni: The Vedic Ritual of the Fire Altar (1983).
Parpola says, "In the introductory verses, Bhavatr?ta mentions his compassionate father M?t?datta, who was a trivedin. Da??in, who lived around A.D. 700 (see Kunjan Pillai 1954, 23), speaks in very much the same terms of his friend, the great Vedic scholar M?t?datta, whose father and son were both called Bhavar?ta (sic), the former a Kalpas?tra??k?k?ra from Kerala (Avantisundar?kath?, edited by Kunjan Pillai, 1954, p.13, II.21ff.)."
It is obvious that the names indicated by Dandin are 
Bhavar?ta - grandfather
M?t?datta -father, the friend of Da??in
Bhavar?ta - son
I have also looked at Asko Parpola's 1984 paper, "On the Jaimin?ya and V?dh?la Traditions of South India and the P???u/P???ava Problem." This paper provides more details regarding Bhavatr?ta, the commentator of Jaimin?ya ?rautas?tra. In this paper we find that Bhavatr?ta's father;s name was M?t?datta and his grandfather's name was Hasti?arman. Hasti?arman came to Kerala from the village of Vasi??haku?i.
So we have the following geneology given by Bhavatr?ta.
Hasti?arman - grandfather
M?t?datta - father
Bhavatr?ta - son
I am surprised that scholars so readily identified Bhavar?ta, the grandfather, with Hasti?arman and Bhavar?ta, Hasti?arman's grandson, with Bhavatr?ta. They have assumed that Hasti?arman changed his name to Bhavatr?ta on moving to Kerala!
Given the appearance of Vasi??haku?i only in a late 14th century inscription while all earlier inscriptions only call it Ti??aiku?i,  I do not consider the identification of the author of the commentary on Jaimin?ya ?rautas?tra with a person mentioned by Da??in is justified. ((There is an inscription by Kum?ra Kampa?a of Vijayanagara of ca. 1373 CE which refers to the village as Ti??aiku?i and not as Vasi??haku?i.) Of course, if we find any inscription attesting to the occurrence of the name Vasi??aku?i earlier in the epigraphical record, then we will have to revise this conclusion. 
This suggests that any conclusions regarding the date of the movement of S?ma Vedic traditions or brahmins from the C??a country to Kerala based on Bhavatr?ta's commentary need to be revised despite whatever legends that might prevail among Namboothiri families regarding Bhavatr?ta.
Regards,
Palaniappan
On Jul 9, 2012, at 11:57 PM, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan wrote:
