Ordering Bori mss in microfilm
Dear Professor Deshpande,
I thank you for the information, but I do not find the way to elicit an answer from the Institute. I like to buy two publications of it. A reputed publihser-cum-agent here at Santiniketan acknowledged its inability to get them for me. I emailed to the BORI's current email ID without result. I posted a snail mail letter to the Secretary;? Failure again.? I noticed deterioration at the BORI since Professor Dandekar's death. After Professor Laddu the state of affairs came to be the worst. Long ago I brought this personally to the notice of Prof. Dhadphale at Mumbai. That resulted in a reply when I wrote to him a few days later. But he was soon removed and the state of affairs relapsed. 
The difficulty is that I have no time to go to Pune and buy the books, available according to my information, at Pune itself. But, it seems, that is the only way out! 
In contrast the VVRI or Munshiram Manoharlal is prompt and overzealous in executing a orders at short notice.
Best
DB
 From: Madhav Deshpande <mmdesh at UMICH.EDU>
Sent: Sunday, 26 August 2012 11:54 PM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Ordering Bori mss in microfilm
Hello Everyone,
Just to clarify that Maitreyi Deshpande is no longer the Hon. Secretary of BORI.? She has been replaced a few months ago by Mr. Arun Barve.? For the changes that have occurred, take a look at the following news report:
http://www.indianexpress.com/election-news/bhandarkar-oriental-research-institute-gets-new-office-bearers/946606
I was in Pune in June for three weeks and gave a talk at the BORI, but did not see Maitreyi Deshpande.? I would suggest that you write to Mr. Arun Barve who is now the Hon. Secretary.
Madhav Deshpande
On Sun, Aug 26, 2012 at 1:11 PM, Lyne BANSAT-BOUDON <lyne.bansat-boudon at ephe.sorbonne.fr> wrote:
Dear Colleague,
Madhav M. Deshpande
Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures
202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608, USA
