From mbjones at UTEXAS.EDU  Mon Sep 10 16:36:32 2012
From: mbjones at UTEXAS.EDU (Michael Brattus Jones)
Date: Mon, 10 Sep 12 11:36:32 -0500
Subject: Call for papers - grad students
Message-ID: <161227097225.23782.3005380355191630818.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear List,

I have been asked to pass along this call for papers for SAGAR, the South
Asian Graduate Research Journal here at the University of Texas at Austin.

Thank you,
Michael B. Jones

*CALL FOR PAPERS*

*Sagar *seeks innovative academic writings on the history, society,
culture, literature, religion, economics, technology and media of South
Asia. The journal was established in 1993 and is published annually online
and in print by The South Asia Institute at The University of Texas at
Austin. As of August 2012, we have made the transition to peer-reviewed
status. Submissions are now coordinated by an editorial collective of UT
graduate students and blindly evaluated by an editorial board of advanced
scholars in the field.  In addition to continuing to publish full-length
research articles of the highest quality, we are pleased to introduce two
new features in our 2013 issue. For the first, we seek original
translations of fiction and non-fiction prose and poetry from South Asian
languages to English. For the second, we request response essays of 1500
words or less that consider single texts. Guidelines on length and
formatting are provided below.



With the introduction of these new elements, *Sagar *will allow scholars of
South Asia to experiment with new styles of writing. Our translation
feature will familiarize scholars of particular linguistic regions of South
Asia to new literatures, both popular and literary. Such exposure will
facilitate comparison, perhaps drawing out common currents in the
literatures of South Asia. For the English language reader, this feature
will showcase writings outside the commonly translated canons of South
Asian literature. Our second new feature, the response essay, will allow
for continuous reflection on images, speeches, exhibits, performances,
architecture, songs, and the like. Here, we are not looking for responses
to scholarly writings (i.e. book reviews); rather, we encourage scholars to
venture outside their areas of specialization, to intervene with timely
responses to current events, or take the first steps along the way to
future scholarly projects.

In all cases, we encourage writings that are theoretically driven and
empirically grounded and take advantage of our online format through
hyperlinks, color images, and embedded video and audio.

*Guidelines for Submission:*

We accept submissions for our annual issues every September and response
pieces for online publication throughout the year. Manuscripts should
follow the 16th edition of *The Chicago Manual of Style.* Entire essays,
including block quotations and notes, should be double-spaced. Remove any
identifying information so that submission is suitable for anonymous review.

*(1)  Full-length research articles*: Full-length-articles should be
between 8,000 and 10,000 words and should include a one-paragraph article
abstract.

*(2)  Original translations:* Translations should be between 3,000 and
6,000 words and should be preceded by a 300-600 word introduction that
contextualizes the text or excerpt.

*(3)  Response essays:* Responses should be 1500 words or less, and where
applicable should include an image or recording of the work to which you
are responding.

Please submit electronic copies of papers saved as Microsoft Word file.
Send electronic manuscripts and/or questions to sagarjournal at gmail.com. All
submissions for inclusion in the 2013 issue are due by September 30th, 2012.

The new Sagar website is http://sagarjournal.wordpress.com/.


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20120910/8ae0ae2e/attachment.htm>

