Fwd: [INDOLOGY] Indian school children offered courses in              Knowledge Traditions and Practices of India
Sorry, I meant to send this to the list.
Regards,
Palaniappan
Sent: Thu, Oct 4, 2012 8:15 pm
Re: [INDOLOGY] Indian school children offered courses in Knowledge Traditions and Practices of India
Dear JLC,
You can start with the following references.
1. Lewis Rowell, "Scale and Mode in the Music of the Early Tamils of South India," Music Theory Spectrum, Vol. 22, No. 2. (Autumn, 2000), pp. 135-156.
2. John Clough, Jack Douthett, N. Ramanathan, and Lewis Rowell, "Early Indian Heptatonic Scales and Recent Diatonic Theory," Music Theory Spectrum, Vol. 15, No. 1. (Spring, 1993), pp. 36-58.
In [1], Rowell says the following.
"The Cilappatik?ram is far from a technical treatise, but some of the passages on music contain extremely detailed information. The following account of the Tamil modal system is woven around five text passages (reproduced here as Texts 1-5 and amplified by information from the two commentaries (as discussed below). While the focus of the present article is upon interpretation and not textual matters per se, it will be useful to point out what we mean, in this case, by the "text." The Cilappatik?ram, like other major epics of the ancient world, existed as a flexible oral text long before it was edited and set down in the form in which we have received it. We do not know the age of the musical system whose details it records. The most that can be said is that the Tamil system apparently arose as an independent tradition, but subsequently came under the influence of the central Sanskritic musical tradition, with which it shared or came to share many common features."
In [2] we find the following passage.
"But the ancient Tamil musicaltradition, the music of the Dravi?a people who inhabited the southern tip ofthe subcontinent (including the modern states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu),presents solid evidence for a cyclical 12-note system as early as the secondcentury A.D.
15
In this system. 22 micro-tones (called, in Tamil, the rnaattirais) weredistributed among 12 chromatic degrees in more-or-less regular pattern, and arotating set of diatonic scales was then selected from this 12-note chromaticuniverse." 
15
 In these paragraphs, we draw uponthe information and interpretations presented in S. Ramanathan. Music in Cilappatik?ram (Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University. 1979). We are also grateful toSister Margaret Bastin of the University of Madras for assistance with thedetails of the ancient Tamil musical system.
Here is a bio of Prof. Rowell (http://www.indiana.edu/~deanfac/bios/2005/LRowell.pdf). ;If a Western scholar in US was able to consult Prof. N. Ramanathan , Retired Professor of Indian Music in the University of Madras, in Chennai and Sister Dr. Margaret Bastin, Principal of Kalai Kaviri College in Tiruchi and write these articles, I am sure the authors of the CBSE module could have consulted them if they had wanted. 
Regards,
Palaniappan
Sent: Thu, Oct 4, 2012 8:29 am
Re: [INDOLOGY] Indian school children offered courses in Knowledge Traditions and Practices of India
Dear SP,
why should you be disappointed?
Which books in English can you recommend for an initiation of all Indian 
children to ancient Tamil music (which is an important branch of ancient 
Indian music)?
I have recently acquired a book (??????? ???? [i??icai y??]) by ????????? 
???????? (m?rkare? p?s?i?) which appeared in 2006 (see attached file) in 
which she comments on the path-breaking 1947 book ???? ???? ??????? ?????????? 
???? [y?? n?l e??um icaittami? n?l] by ?????????? ?????? [vipul??anta cuv?mi],
and it seems to be interesting, but until an English version appears, 
what to do?
The books by Prof. P. Sambamurthy are not specific enough.
And the 1979 book by S. Ramanathan (/Music in the Cilappatikaaram/) was 
not written for the general public.
I don't suppose you would recommend the reading of books by Abraham 
Pandithar (who was a believer in Lemuria) ...
If the instances which are capable of action in Tamil Nadu had 
concentrated their energy in preparing English translations of important 
Tamil books rather than fighting for a long time against Unicode (this 
is fortunately now a thing of the past), there might be more useable 
documents in wide circulation.
On 04/10/2012 03:41, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan wrote:
