From tubb at UCHICAGO.EDU  Tue Oct 23 20:19:32 2012
From: tubb at UCHICAGO.EDU (Gary Tubb)
Date: Tue, 23 Oct 12 15:19:32 -0500
Subject: Visiting Chair at the University of Chicago
Message-ID: <161227097808.23782.10128019138608390450.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Appended below is the announcement of a new visiting chair at the 
University of Chicago.  Please note that the search committee is 
accepting suggestions of names to be considered for the position, as 
well as applications from interested persons.

Yours,
Gary Tubb.

-- 
Gary Tubb, Professor and Chair
Department of South Asian Languages and Civilizations
The University of Chicago


[Announcement follows:]

The University of Chicago is pleased to announce the establishment of 
"The Indian Ministry of Culture Vivekananda Chair," a visiting 
professorship that will allow the University to welcome a senior scholar 
of significant academic distinction in a field of study promoted by 
Swami Vivekananda. The holder of this distinguished Chair will remain in 
residence for one quarter of the academic year to teach, conduct 
research, and engage with the intellectual community of the University.

The Chair is made possible by a generous grant from the Ministry of 
Culture, Government of India, and is intended to honor the life and 
legacy of Swami Vivekananda by promoting the fields of study most 
relevant to his teachings and philosophies, such as human values, Indian 
philosophy, and movements for social change.The Chair is also intended 
to further the study of Indian culture in the United States; to advance 
the understanding of the history, culture and people of India; to create 
more knowledge about Indian society; and to instruct new generations of 
students.

The Committee on Southern Asian Studies at the University of Chicago 
welcomes suggestions of candidates whose research work falls into one or 
more of the fields of study most relevant to the teachings and legacy of 
Swami Vivekananda (human values, social change, and Indian philosophy), 
and who possess demonstrated records of scholarly excellence and 
pedagogical accomplishment. Each incumbent will ideally hold the 
position for a period of two years, returning each year for one 
quarter.In addition to the expected academic activities on campus, the 
holder will give each year a public presentation on a topic that 
exemplifies, honors, and promotes the legacy of Swami Vivekananda.

Support for the position includes salary, travel costs, local 
accommodation, and coverage of expenses connected with the annual 
presentation.

To nominate an interested or proposed candidate, please send a letter 
giving the nominee's name and field of study and explaining the 
nominee's scholarly eminence.

To directly apply for the position, please send a cover letter 
explaining the field of study and interest, together with a CV.

Nominations or applications should be sent by email to The Indian 
Ministry of Culture Vivekananda Chair Search Committee at the following 
address:

vivekananda at uchicago.edu <mailto:vivekananda at uchicago.edu>

Submissions should, wherever possible, be in the form of a single PDF 
document.

The University of Chicago is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity 
Employer.


[:End of Announcement]


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20121023/2546970c/attachment.htm>

