On the Date of Classical Tamil Poems
DearScholars,
I hadearlier written about the chieftain mentioned in Classical Tamil poems as P??a? who ruled in a northern border area of Tami?akam. (See http://listserv.liv.ac.uk/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind1009&L=INDOLOGY&P=R912&D=0&I=-3) Although the poemseemed to refer to a single individual, I had suggested that it referred to thedynasty of the ?Bana? kings whose names had originally been P??a? (in singular) before the variation p->b- in thename took place.   
Now I havefound one more Classical Tamil poem that confirms my thesis. 
???????????????????????????alar?
vil ke?u t??ai vicciyar perumaka?
v?ntaro?u poruta ????aip p??ar
puli n?kkuu?a? nilai ka??a
kali ke?u ku?ump?r ?rppi?umperit? (Ku?untokai 328.5-8)
Thiscan be translated as given below:
?The gossip was louder thanthe roar of the noisy village in the arid tract, that saw the stance of the P??arthat resembled the look of the tiger, when the chief of Vicciyar of armyabounding in archers fought against the kings.?
Inthe past, commentators like U. V. Caminathaiyarhad interpreted the word ?P??ar? here as the homophon,?p??ar?,meaning ?bards?. They interpreted thebards as standing between the two armies and looking at both armies as a ?lion?does!. The real meaning of ?lookof a tiger? can be seen in the following Kalittokai poem
valimu?pi? valle??a y?kkai puli n?kki?
cu??uamai villar curi va?ar pittaiyar
a??am p?rttu alkum ka?u?ka? ma?avar ?(Kalittokai 4.1-3)
This canbe translated as ?the warriors of the arid tract with hard bodies ofextraordinary strength, looks of tiger, bows with string/leather(?) coiledaround, locks of hair with curls, and fierce eyes, who are on the watch intenton killing??
So the ?lookof tiger? in Ku?untokai 328.7 should refer to the fierce look of ?P?nar?warriors who were engaged in fighting. It cannot refer to ?p?nar? bards, ifthey are supposed to be bystanders.  The context of the poem indicatesthat the P??ar had fought on one side. Since the Vicciyar wereonly minor chieftains engaged in a battle against major kings, we can guessthat the P??ar fought fiercely on the side of the underdogs,the Vicciyar. This was probably why their bravery was appreciated by thevillagers.
Interestingly,Akam.226.13 describes the P??an as ?vali mikum mu?pi? p??a?? reminding us of Kalittokai 4.1.
Thisidentification of P??ar with the B??akings mentioned in later inscriptions and the epic Ma?im?kalai is very important for the dating of Classical Tamil texts.
It shouldbe noted that the 5th century T??agu??a inscription refers to the dynasty under consideration as B?had-B??a. Later non-Tamil inscriptions continue to referto them as B??as while Tamil inscriptions refer to them as V??a- where b- > v-. The name V??a? occurs as the lord of Ci?uku?i,probably a coastal village on the east coast of the P???iyan kingdom. There is aninstance in the Maturaikk??ci 203 where the name V??a? seems to refer to B???surain the context of referring to his fabulous wealth. We should note that theCilappatik?ram refers more explicitly to B???sura,son of Mah?bali, as V??a? and not as P??a?. The same is true of the Ma?im?kalaialso.  Clearly if the ClassicalTamil texts had been composed in the 5th century CE or later, they would bereferring to the P??ar chieftain as V??a? and not P??a?. So the Classical Tamiltexts would have been composed earlier than the time when P??a- has changed toB??a. Interestingly, M?m?la??r, the author of Akam 31, has also authored Akam325, which mentions Pa?a?, thechieftain. As I had discussed earlier, Akam 31 was composed earlier than theKalabhra rule in Tami?akam.  
 (http://listserv.liv.ac.uk/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0908&L=INDOLOGY&P=R4899&I=-3,http://listserv.liv.ac.uk/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0908&L=INDOLOGY&P=R6548&I=-3) 
Froma historian?s viewpoint, Akam 325 is probably the earliest mention of theB?nas.
Thanks inadvance for your comments
Regards,
Palaniappan
