From kellner at ASIA-EUROPE.UNI-HEIDELBERG.DE  Thu Nov  8 14:16:20 2012
From: kellner at ASIA-EUROPE.UNI-HEIDELBERG.DE (Birgit Kellner)
Date: Thu, 08 Nov 12 15:16:20 +0100
Subject: 1 PhD Scholarship: Buddhism between South Asia and Tibet
Message-ID: <161227097941.23782.812035781206500525.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear colleagues,

here is an announcement of a further PhD scholarship in one of our 
pending projects. Apologies for cross-posting, as always. Kindly bring 
this to the attention of suitable candidates.

With best regards,

Birgit Kellner

-------------------------------------


1 PhD Scholarship: Buddhism between South Asia and Tibet

Heidelberg University invites applications for 1 PhD scholarship within 
the research project ?Negotiating Boundaries in Religious Discourse and 
Practice: Buddhism between South Asia and Tibet.? The research project 
is situated within the Cluster ?Asia and Europe in a Global Context,? 
funded by the German Federal Excellence Initiative.

The research project investigates historical and contemporary settings 
where the advent of Buddhism in culturally Tibetan regions led to 
negotiations or renegotiations of boundaries in discourse and practice. 
PhD projects may treat (but need not be limited to) (a) the formation of 
Buddhist schools and lineages between the 11th and 13th centuries 
(during a period of intense cultural contacts with South Asia), (b) 
negotiations of boundaries of Buddhism (or ?religion?) in relation to 
?worldly? knowledge systems that Tibetans appropriated from South Asia, 
such as grammar or medicine, (c) contemporary negotiations of religious 
boundaries in the Himalayas, in connection with Buddhism, (d) master 
narratives of the history of Buddhism in Tibet and the role and function 
of Indian elements in them.

Candidates must hold an M.A. or equivalent in a relevant discipline of 
the humanities as South Asian Studies, Central Asian Studies, 
Philosophy, Religious Studies, Buddhist Studies, Indology or Tibetan 
Studies. Proficiency in English, Classical Tibetan and a South Asian 
language (or languages) pertinent to the specialisation of the PhD 
proposal is essential; prior research experience in Asia is desirable. 
Knowledge of German is not a prerequisite, but German language courses 
are available.

The successful applicants? primary task will be to complete a PhD 
degree, but active participation in relevant graduate courses offered at 
the Cluster of Excellence or other institutes at Heidelberg University 
is recommended. Some light administrative duties may occur. The stipends 
are rated at ?1200/month (except for a small enrollment fee, no tuition 
fees apply) and limited to a duration of three years. Some travel and 
publication funds are available. Applications for further subsidies will 
be encouraged.

To apply, send curriculum vitae, academic transcripts, outline of a 
dissertation project (2-3 pages) related to the project, names and 
contact details of two referees, and one written sample via email to Ms. 
Ina Chebbi at chebbi at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de. For questions 
regarding the scope and content of the project, contact Prof. Birgit 
Kellner at kellner at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de.

Review of applications will begin on 15 December 2012 and continue until 
the position is filled.

Heidelberg University is an equal opportunity/affirmative-action 
employer. In case of equality of qualification and suitability of 
applicants, the applications made by female researchers will be given 
preferential consideration. We also encourage and welcome applications 
from disabled persons.
-- 
--------

Prof. Dr. Birgit Kellner
Chair in Buddhist Studies
Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context - Shifting 
Asymmetries in Cultural Flows"
University of Heidelberg
Karl Jaspers Centre
Vossstra?e 2, Building 4400
D-69115 Heidelberg
Phone: +49(0)6221 - 54 4301
Fax: +49(0)6221 - 54 4012
http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/home.html




