Numata Chair of Buddhist Studies at the University of Calgary
Please share the following job announcement with any colleagues who may be
interested in applying. I am happy to answer questions about the add by
email. Formal inquiries, however, should be sent to my department head and
the search committee chair, Virginia Tumasz. Her email address is included
at the end of the job announcement.
Apologies for the cross-posting.
Cheers,
Beth
UNIVERSITY OF CALGARY (Alberta, Canada): The Department of Religious
Studies in the Faculty of Arts invites applications to fill the endowed
Numata Chair in Buddhist Studies with a tenure-track position at the rank
of Assistant or Associate Professor to begin July 1, 2013. The Chair is
one of only a few endowed Numata Chairs in the world that sponsor a
resident professor rather than visiting scholars.
The candidate?s experience and credentials will be commensurate with the
prestige of the Numata Chair. A strong record of research and teaching, an
established and active research program, and proficiency in pertinent
research languages are required. Experience in graduate supervision is
desirable. A PhD in Religious Studies or a related field must be in hand
at time of appointment. Area of specialization within Buddhist Studies is
open.
The successful candidate will teach graduate and undergraduate courses,
including the survey course on Eastern religions and pertinent primary
language courses, and supervise graduate students in the MA and PhD
programs in Religious Studies. Other duties of the Chair include
coordination of a visiting speakers program and engagement with the
external community.
Review of applications will begin Monday, January 14, 2013. Applications
will be accepted until the position is filled.
Candidates should send pdf?s of an application letter outlining teaching
and research interests, curriculum vitae, writing samples, evidence of
teaching effectiveness, and the names and contact info of three referees
to Perlea Ashton (pashton at ucalgary.ca). Referees should be directed to
submit their letters directly to Ms. Ashton by email attachment.
Specific inquiries about the position should be directed to Dr. Virginia
Tumasz, Head of Department (tumasz at ucalgary.ca).
Elizabeth M. Rohlman
Assistant Professor
Department of Religious Studies
University of Calgary
2500 University Drive NW
Calgary, Alberta
T2N 1N4
Phone: (403) 220-3287
Fax: (403) 210-9191
