Hindi/Urdu lectureship at Indiana
Dear Colleagues,
Please circulate the job posting below to your colleagues and students who may be interested. I'd be happy to answer any questions that may arise about this, and thank you for your help in getting the word out.
Lectureship in Hindi-Urdu
The Dhar India Studies Program at Indiana University Bloomington invites applications for a full-time, long-term, renewable lectureship in Hindi-Urdu beginning August 1, 2013. We welcome applications from both junior and more advanced candidates for this position.
The appointee will be expected to contribute to the long-term development of the Hindi-Urdu program at Indiana University and to perform as a collegial and collaborative member of the Dhar India Studies language pedagogy team. Applicants must possess native or near-native fluency in Hindu-Urdu and English. Preference will be given to candidates with experience teaching Hindi-Urdu to American university students, and with proven creativity and pedagogical success in the design and delivery of courses at all levels of instruction. An MA or PhD in an appropriate field is desired but not necessary. The position entails the teaching of a total of 6 courses per year (3 per semester) at the elementary, intermediate, and advanced levels.
Salary will be commensurate with education and experience.
Applicants should submit a cover letter, CV, three letters of reference, samples of relevant teaching materials authored by the applicant, and evaluations of teaching. Review of applications will begin January 14, 2013 and will continue until the position is filled.
Submit application electronically to:  india at indiana.edu<mailto:india at indiana.edu>
Or by mail:      Dhar India Studies Program
                        Attention:  Hindi-Urdu Search Committee
                        825 E. 8th Street
Bloomington, IN, 47408
Indiana University is an affirmative action and equal opportunity employer. Women, minorities and persons with disabilities are strongly encouraged to apply.
Rebecca J. Manring
Associate Professor
India Studies and Religious Studies
and
Director of Language Instruction
Dhar India Studies Program
Indiana University-Bloomington
