PhD Scholarship: Practices of Argumentation in South Asian and              Tibetan Buddhism
Dear colleagues,
apologies for cross-posting - I would be grateful if you could bring 
this announcement of 1 PhD scholarship on practices of argumentation in 
South Asian and Tibetan Buddhism to the attention of suitable candidates.
With best regards,
Birgit Kellner
Heidelberg University invites applications for 1 PhD Scholarship within 
the research group ?Practices of Argumentation in Transcultural 
Perspective.? The research group is situated within the Cluster ?Asia 
and Europe in a Global Context,? funded by the German Federal Excellence 
Initiative, and aims at working towards a more credible global history 
of truth and rationality by providing historically situated studies of 
practices of argumentation and the implicit standards of validity 
embodied within them.
Brief outlines of the group?s objectives and subprojects can be found 
here: 
http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/de/forschung/interdisciplinary-research-groups/mc13-practices-of-argumentation.html
This PhD Scholarship is part of the subproject ?Reasoning in South Asian 
and Tibetan Buddhism.? Candidates must hold an M.A. or equivalent in a 
relevant discipline of the humanities or social sciences such as South 
or East Asian Studies, Central Asian Studies, Philosophy, Religious 
Studies, Buddhist Studies, Indology or Tibetan Studies. Proficiency in 
English, Classical Tibetan and Sanskrit is essential; prior research 
experience in Asia is desirable. Knowledge of German is not a 
prerequisite, but German language courses are available.
The successful applicants? primary task will be to complete a PhD 
degree, but active participation in relevant graduate courses offered at 
the Cluster of Excellence or other institutes at Heidelberg University 
is recommended. Some light administrative duties may occur. The stipends 
are rated at ?1200/month (except for a small enrollment fee, no tuition 
fees apply) and limited to a duration of three years. Some travel and 
publication funds are available. Applications for further subsidies will 
be encouraged.
To apply, send curriculum vitae, academic transcripts, outline of a 
dissertation project (2-3 pages) related to the subproject, names and 
contact details of two referees, and one written sample via email to Ms. 
Ina Chebbi at chebbi at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de. For questions 
regarding the scope and content of the subproject, contact Prof. Birgit 
Kellner at kellner at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de.
Review of applications will begin on 10 Deccember 2012 and continue 
until the position is filled.
Heidelberg University is an equal opportunity/affirmative-action 
employer. In case of equality of qualification and suitability of 
applicants, the applications made by female researchers will be given 
preferential consideration. We also encourage and welcome applications 
from disabled persons.
Prof. Dr. Birgit Kellner
Chair in Buddhist Studies
Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context - Shifting 
Asymmetries in Cultural Flows"
University of Heidelberg
Karl Jaspers Centre
Vossstra?e 2, Building 4400
D-69115 Heidelberg
Phone: +49(0)6221 - 54 4301
Fax: +49(0)6221 - 54 4012
http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/home.html
