Sesa and Kurma carrying the Earth
< There
is a verse in the Mudr?r?k?asa (2.19 in Hillebrandt's edition) that mentions ?e?a
bearing the earth (the context is that worthy people never give up, no matter
how hard their task is): ki? ?e?asya bharavyath? na vapu?i k?m?? na k?ipaty e?a
yat... There is an almost identical verse in (some MSS of) Bhart?hari 's ?ataka
s (number 232 in Kosambi's edition), which reads k?rmasya instead of ?e?asya .>
If the
readings are uniform (so according to my sources) the Mudr?rak?asa reading
should be the original one. This is from the point of view of age. Secondly,
the ?e?a story is common to all sects while the K?rma cult is sectarian. This
also is against the antiquity of the ?atakatraya reading. 
So
according to reason. But that the reading k?rmasya found place in V?sudeva
Pa?a??kara?s Subh??itaratnabh????g?ra may call for explanation.
Best
DB?
 From: Balogh D?niel <danbalogh at GMAIL.COM>
Sent: Tuesday, 18 December 2012 3:09 PM
[INDOLOGY] Sesa and Kurma carrying the Earth
Dear All,
though I've been reading you for a while, this is my first letter to
    the list so maybe I'd better introduce myself.
I'm D?niel (Daniel) Balogh from Hungary, I did my MA in Indology in
    Budapest, graduating in 2002. I've worked for the Clay Sanskrit
    Library and done some freelancing as well as a lot of non-scholarly
    work. Then two years ago I went back to university, still in
    Budapest, to work on a PhD under Csaba Dezs?. My research topic is
    the
    Mudr?r?k?asa, focussing on intertextual issues and the reception of
    the play in pre-modern India.
Now to the question on which I'd be interested in some opinions.
    There is a verse in the Mudr?r?k?asa (2.19 in Hillebrandt's edition)
    that mentions
    ?e?a bearing the earth (the context is that worthy people never give
    up, no matter how hard their task is):
    ki?
    ?e?asya bharavyath? na vapu?i k?m?? na k?ipaty e?a yat...
There is an almost identical verse in (some MSS of)  Bhart?hari 's ?ataka s (number 232 in Kosambi's edition), which reads k?rmasya instead of ?e?asya .
I've been wondering if there are any early textual references to
    K?rma carrying the earth. Also, what if anything could have been the
    motivation for an author or copyist to change k?rma to ?e?a or vice
    versa, and which direction of change would have been more likely?
    (Note that apparently ?e?a is not attested in any Bhart?hari MSS,
    nor is k?rma found in any MSS of the Mudr?r?k?asa, so the two
    traditions seem both pretty strong.)
Thank you for any suggestions,
Daniel
