Sad announcement: Passing of Prof Tilmann Vetter (1937-2012)
Dear Jonathan,
This is very sad and a great loss for Buddhology and Indian studies.
Some notes and an anecdote:
Prof. Tilmann E. Vetter, since 1964 (Erkenntnisprobleme bei Dharmakirti,
Vienna: OeAkWi) known as a scholar in Buddhology having direct access to
the major sources in three classical languages, Sanskrit, Tibetan and
Chinese, has occupied the chair of Buddhology in the then Kern Institute,
Leiden, till 1999.
Among those who can call Prof. Tillman E. Vetter their ?Doctor Vater?
several come to mind
(apart from Vittorio [Victor] van Bijlert 1987: ?The Buddha as a Valid
Means of Cognition? already mentioned by Prof. Bhattacharya):
Johannes Bronkhorst 1980 ?Theoretical Aspects of Panini?s grammar? (for his
second PhD, first PhD 1979 in Pune),
Peter Verhagen 1991 ?Sanskrit grammatical literature in Tibet?,
Henk Blezer 1997 ?Kar gling Zhi khro: A Tantric Buddhist Concept?,
Aucke Forsten 2004 ?The Second Chapter of the Lankavatarasutra: A
Buddhological and Philosophical Study?
Yuko Ijiri 2005 ?The Four Upasaka Chapters of the Gandavyuha: A Comparative
Edition and a Translation?
I remember a discussion with Paul van der Velde during a reception in
autumn 1995. Paul who was in a team around W.A.L. Stokhof setting up the
new International Institute for Asian Studies (planned in accordance with
Frits Staal?s 1991 ?Baby Krishna Report? on ?minor? language studies at
Dutch universities). Paul was proudly explaining me how, through a memorial
plaque (www.muurgedichten.nl/multatuli.html) and some other activities, he
had succeeded in creating a link between the young institute and the
19thcentury orientalist Prof. Veth (see also Paul?s thesis that
appeared a few
years later: www.paulvandervelde.nl/veth/), about whom the author Multatuli
had once written:
?Wie niet verbaasd staat over de kennis van professor Veth heeft geen
verstand van kennis.?
(?The one who is not astonished at the knowledge of professor Veth does not
understand knowledge.?)
My reply to Paul: ?But WE (the then Kern Institute) have VetTER.?
Prof. Vetter, also present at the reception and standing not far, had
unintentionally overheard our discussion and had his well-known ironical
smile.
On 20 December 2012 14:48, Michael Witzel <witzel at fas.harvard.edu> wrote:
Prof. Dr. Jan E.M. Houben,
Directeur d Etudes ? Sources et Histoire de la Tradition Sanskrite ?
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, SHP,
A la Sorbonne,45-47, rue des Ecoles,
75005 Paris -- France.
JEMHouben at gmail.com
www.jyotistoma.nl
