Improved DEDR Search
Dear Suresh, 
I also join George  in congratulating you and wish you the very best for Proto-Dravidian reconstructions in collaboration with Periannan Chandrasekaran. 
In this connection, I remember something which happened in August when I gave a lecture in a place in Tamil Nadu. The lecture involved the discussion of Proto-Dravidian reconstructions. During the Q&A session, one person in the audience who was supposed to be a research scholar in linguistics at a university said that Proto-Dravidian was nothing but Old Tamil. I was shocked that a researcher in linguistics was saying that. When I said no linguist would say so, she said Caldwell and Emeneau had said so!  At that time I remembered what Prof. Emeneau wrote to me in December 2001. Here is what Prof. Emeneau said:
"As you know, I have no competence at all in Tamilian philology-my only knowledge of Tamil is what can be got from the Tamil Lexicon. My colleague Burrow had more, but it was only a superficial reading knowledge (he died in 1986). My excuse for not having learned more is that I intended to work on non-literate Dravidian languages, and I was afraid that any extensive knowledge of Tamil would cause me to find that they were just imperfect Tamil (which of course they were not)."
After the lecture, I did not have time to talk to her to find out how she came to have that opinion despite being a linguist. I have long felt that over the years Tamils have not gone into the study of historical/comparative Dravidian as much as Telugus. Given this situation, this collaborative effort is very promising from the viewpoint of the badly-needed combined philological expertise it brings to the effort. 
By the way, here is something that may be of interest to you. Consider the following DEDR entry. 
4066 Ta. p????? grandfather, ancestor; p???i grandmother, aged woman. Ma. p???an grandfather (among Pulayars); p???i wife of a tailor, midwife. DED 3349
Here "p???i wife of a tailor" should not have been included in #4066. If you check Gundert's dictionary, you will find that it refers to the female of p??a? (see pp. 641-642) and should have been included in #4068. (P??ar in Tamil Nadu had given up music and taken up tailoring as their profession for quite some time.)
4068 Ta. p?? song, melody; P??ar caste; praise, flattery; p??a? an ancient class of Tamil bards and minstrels; p??i song, melody, music; p??u song; pa? music; pa??u (pa??i-) to sing in an instrument (as a tune), tune musical instruments; pa??al tuning the lute strings according to the required melody; pa??umai quality of a melody; pa??iyam musical instrument; pa??ava? bard;pa??ar bards. Ma. p??an a caste of musicians, actors and players. ? To. pa?? festival (any except funeral). Ka. p??be (DCV, no. 1218) dancing girl, (Kitt.) whore, adultress; (K.2) p??a an expert in singing and dancing. Tu. (pada) pa?pini to recite a verse, sing a song. Go. (Ch. W. Ph. Mand.) p?na??l a Pardhan man; fem. p?ne (Voc. 2184). Man?. pe?mi song. Kuwi (Mah.) pa?bu, (Isr.)p??bu id. / Cf. BHS p??a- a c????la, untouchable; Pkt. p??a- id.; Or. p?no name of the ?omb caste in Ganjam. DED(S) 3351.
p???i has the same relationship to p??a? that uma??i has to uma?a? (DEDR 2674 does not show uma??i but it occurs in Classical Tamil and the plural form uma??iyar is included in the Tamil Lexicon).
Regards,
Palaniappan
Sent: Thu, Dec 20, 2012 1:29 pm
Re: [INDOLOGY] Improved DEDR Search
Dear Suresh,
Thanks for the good work!
George
