CEAS, Bucharest: 2nd Intesive Course on Codicology
Dear Colleagues,
I have the pleasure to announce that the Centre for Eurasiatic and
Afroasiatic Studies (CEAS) ? Bucharest, will hold its second Intensive
Course in Manuscriptology, 12-17 September 2011.
Please find below the relevant information.
Thanking you,
Julieta Rotaru
Associate Lecturer, University of Bucharest
Faculty of Foreign Languages and Literature
The Second Intensive Course on Manuscriptology:
Title: History and development of North-Indian Scripts
(old N?gar? and early Devan?gar?)
Course Description:
Among ancient scripts, many scholars expect N?gar? to be a relatively
easy one because it is thought to be close to the well-known modern
form of Devan?gar?. However, in several respects old N?gar? and even
early Devan?gar? are closer to Br?hm?, early Gupta script and to the
sister script Siddham?t?k?  than to modern Devan?gar?. In order to
master old N?gar? and early Devan?gar? it is therefore important to
study them in their historical context.
The course will contain the following sections.
i. Introduction: the origin and development of scripts in ancient
India (northern branch);
ii. Learning, writing and reading the old N?gar? script;
ii. Learning the style and varieties of
a. old N?gar? (inscriptions to manuscripts);
b. early Devan?gar? (manuscripts) with p???am?tr?;
iii. Practice with the reading of manuscripts;
iv. A certificate will be provided for active and successful participation.
Materials: to be provided
Subscription:
The course participants will be invited after approval of their brief
CV and motivation letter which are to be submitted in advance to
julieta.rotaru at bmms.ro / s.rath at iias.nl before 1st June 2011. The
tuition fees are integrally covered by the CEAS.
For participants from abroad rooms have been reserved (in a moderate
price) in the Guest House of the University of Bucharest, just 10
minutes from the venue of the course.
Requirement: basic knowledge in Sanskrit.
Venue:
Centre for Eurasiatic and Afroasiatic Studies
Take Ionescu Street, no. 4, 010354 Bucharest
ROMANIA
Teacher:
Dr. Saraju Rath
International Institute for Asian Studies (IIAS)
Leiden, The Netherlands
email: s.rath at iias.nl
