Visiting Faculty Position in Sanskrit Literature at University of              British Columbia
Dear colleagues, 
Please see advertisement below, and please forward to anyone who may be interested. We will begin processing applications March 15th.
best regards,
Adheesh
VISITING FACULTY OR POSTDOCTORAL TEACHING FELLOW IN SANSKRIT LITERATURE
The Department of Asian Studies at the University of British Columbia invites applications for a Visiting Faculty or Postdoctoral Teaching Fellow in Sanskrit Literature for the 2011-2012 academic year. Applicants with a Ph. D. in a relevant field are encouraged to apply; ABDs nearing completion will also be considered. The successful candidate will be expected to teach a year-long reading course in advanced Sanskrit, and two undergraduate courses in premodern South Asian culture. Expertise in the Sanskrit language is required, and teaching experience in premodern South Asian literature is desirable. The term of appointment will be July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012.
Applicants should provide a cover letter identifying teaching and research interests, a current c.v., a sample of scholarly writing, and a teaching portfolio (if applicable). Applicants should also arrange for three letters of recommendation to be sent under separate cover to: Chair, Sanskrit Postdoc Search Committee, Asian Studies, Asian Centre, 1871 West Mall, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z2, Canada. Review of applications will begin on March 15, 2011 and will continue until the position is filled.
For more information on the department, visit www.asia.ubc.ca.
This appointment is subject to final budgetary approval.
UBC hires on the basis of merit and is committed to employment equity. All qualified persons are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority.
Dr. Adheesh Sathaye
Department of Asian Studies
University of British Columbia 
408 Asian Centre 
1871 West Mall
Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z2 ? Canada
604.822.5188
adheesh at interchange.ubc.ca
http://www.ubcsanskrit.ca
http://www.asianfolklore.ca
