Call for Papers, "Religions, Science and Technology" March 2012
Dear colleagues,
I was asked by Istv?n Keul to forward the following call for papers to  
the list.
Best
Joerg Gengnagel
Call for Papers
International Association for the History of Religions Special Conference 2012
Religions, Science and Technology in Cultural Contexts: Dynamics of Change
Venue: NTNU-The Norwegian University of Science and Technology
1-3 March 2012
In current public and academic debates, the complex relationships  
between ?religion? and ?science? tend to be reduced into one between  
monolithic entities. By exploring historical and contemporary  
interactions between religions, science and technology, a more complex  
understanding may be reached of the areas and ways in which they  
overlap, correspond, challenge and conflict with each other. This  
conference seeks to explore how religions, science and technology  
interact and generate change (progressive, reactive, regressive),  
particularly in relation to such issues as the environment and climate  
change; the economy; welfare; life expectancy; popular representation;  
and sexual equality. Of particular interest are explorations of  
dynamic relationships between worldviews/cosmologies, socio-cultural  
practices and technologies; and of ?the politics of change?, i.e. how  
different actors seek to convince the public of the benefits of their  
own approaches or of the detriment of ?the others? approaches.
The conference is organized by the Department of Archaeology and  
Religious Studies of the Norwegian University of Science and  
Technology in Trondheim.
Registration fee until 1 December 2011 is 250 EUR, which includes  
conference materials, lunches and refreshments. There will also be  
bursaries for participants from lower income countries.
Abstract of 200 words and affiliation details should be submitted by  
1st August 2011. For submitting your abstracts and for any type of  
inquiries, you are welcome to contact the Conference secretary, Filip  
Ivanovic (filip.ivanovic at ntnu.no).
