Revised conference schedule: Buddhist Nuns in India
Dear colleagues,
The University of Toronto/McMaster University Yehan Numata Buddhist Studies Program is pleased to announce an international conference on the lives of ordained Buddhist nuns in India from the time of the Buddha until the eventual disappearance of the bhik?u?? sa?gha from Indian soil.
Buddhist Nuns in India
April 16-17, 2011, University of Toronto
Trinity College, Combination Room. 6 Hoskin Avenue, Toronto
Sponsored by the University of Toronto/McMaster University Yehan Numata Buddhist Studies Program
Friday, April 15 (5 pm): Public lecture
Gregory Schopen (UCLA): "The Limited Reach of Religious Doctrine: Debt, Slavery, and Who could Become a Buddhist Nun (or Monk) in Early India."
Muzzo Family Alumni Hall 100, University of St. Michael's College, 121 St. Joseph Street, Toronto
Saturday, April 16
	Session One (9:30?10:45)
Oskar von Hin?ber (Universit?t Freiburg)
"Pious and Useful: Women Who did Not Become Nuns in Early Buddhism"
Hiraoka Satoshi (Ky?to Bunky? University)
"Did Ya?odhar? become a Nun? On the Indebtedness of the Lotus S?tra to the M?lasarv?stiv?da-vinaya"
	Session Two (11:00?12:00)
Shayne Clarke (McMaster University)
"Gu?aprabha, Yijing, Bu sTon and the Lack of a Coherent System of Rules for Nuns in the Tibetan Tradition of the M?lasarv?stiv?da-vinaya"
Yonezawa Yoshiyasu (Taish? University)
"Re-editing the Bhik?u??-vibha?ga Section of the Vinayas?tra"
	Session Three (1:30?2:30)
Petra Kieffer-P?lz (Martin-Luther-Universit?t, Halle-Wittenberg)
"Buddhist Nuns in South India as Reflected in the Andhaka??hakath? and the Anuga??hipada"
Jinah Kim (Vanderbilt University)
"At the Feet of the Buddha: Representations of Buddhist Nuns and Monastic Women in Medieval South Asia"
	Session Four (2:45?3:45)
Jason Neelis (Wilfrid Laurier University)
"Female Ownership of Buddhist Monasteries? A Closer Look at Vih?rasv?min?s and Feminine Patronage in South Asian Sources"
Gregory Schopen (University of California, Los Angeles)
"The Buddhist Nun as an Urban Landlord and a 'Legal Person' in Early India"
Discussion (4:00?5:00)
Shimoda Masahiro (Tokyo University), Paul Groner (University of Virginia), Andrew Skilton (University of London)
Sunday, April 17
	Session One (9:30?10:30)
Jampa Tsedroen (Universit?t Hamburg)
"The Foundation of the Order of Buddhist Nuns According to the Tibetan Translation of the K?udrakavastu of the M?lasarv?stiv?da-vinaya"
Yao Fumi (Tokyo University)
"The Story of Dharmadinn?: Ordination by Messenger in the M?lasarv?stiv?da-vinaya"
	Session Two (10:45?11:45)
Sasaki Shizuka (Hanazono University)
"An Analytical Study of the Bhik?u?? P?r?jika rules in the Vinayas"
Kishino Ry?ji (University of California, Los Angeles)
"On Possible Misunderstandings of the Brahmacaryopasth?nasa?v?ti Requirement for Female Ordination in the M?lasarv?stiv?da-vinaya"
	Session Three (1:15?2:45)
Ann Heirman (University of Gent)
"Beyond Gender: Bodily Care in Indian Buddhist Monasticism"
Mari Jyvasjarvi (Harvard University)      
"Buddhist and Jain Nuns in Early Medieval India"
Christoph Emmrich (University of Toronto, Mississauga)
"And Then There Were None? Mrs. Shakya and the Sketchy History of the Nepalese Bhik?u??s"
Concluding remarks and discussion (3:00?4:00)
Shimoda Masahiro (Tokyo University), Paul Groner (University of Virginia), Andrew Skilton (University of London)
All sessions in Trinity College, Combination Room. 6 Hoskin Avenue, Toronto.
Sincerely,
Shayne Clarke
Shayne Clarke
Department of Religious Studies
McMaster University
University Hall, Room 104
1280 Main Street West
Hamilton, Ontario
L8S 4K1
CANADA
Phone: 905 525 9140, ext. 23389
Fax: 905 525 8161
clarsha[at]mcmaster.ca
http://socserv.mcmaster.ca/clarsha/
