Query from Hal Schiffman
Dear Hal,
On the Mumbai/Bombay front--the consensus has been that Mumbai was derived 
from a local goddess Mumbadevi.  For years the folklore was that Bombay 
was the Portuguese rendering which also coincided with Bom Bahia  or good 
harbor.  The British adopted Bombay from the get-go and Bombay it has 
remained (until changed to Mumbai officially by the influence of Shiv Sena 
in its chauvinist mode--I seem to recall it was November 22, 1995.  My 
recollection (not documented) was that the term Bombay became really 
political in the late 1950s when the central government declined to 
create separate Gujarat and Maharashtra states in the 1956 states 
reorganization.  The issue was the claim of pro-Maharashtra folks that 
Bombay (Mumbai) would be the capital of the state.  The 'opposition' to 
this was perceived to be the 'cosmopolitan' and 'capitalist' interests, 
which initially meant Gujaratis.  The fact that Gujaratis were also an 
important component of the city's life and culture--and had been since the 
17th century--was an inconvenient fact that was easily overlooked. The 
disagreement though was not linguistic as the city had been known as 
Mumbai in Marathi and Gujarati and Konkani always  so far as I know.  The 
railway stations had designations of Bambai in Hindi and this also 
appeared in Urdu.  (You may recall the linguistic state agitations in 
South India involved attacks on post offices and trains--Indian Railways 
was then, and still now, is a central and 'cosmopolitan' entity--very slow 
to change.
On Chennai/Madras, I recall that in 1965-66 the inbound busses coming into 
the city had Madras in English and Chennai in Tamil.  I assumed that the 
official change to Chennai was part and parcel of the change to Tamilnadu 
although I believe it was later.  The naming of Madras was an adaptation, 
I think, of Madrasapatam--one of the hamlets by Fort St. George.  Here I 
am on shaky ground and defer to Madras-wallahs.
Calcutta/Kolkata has its own history; the official change rooted in local 
politics.
When Bangalore became Bengaluru the city fathers/mothers threw away what 
might be called a world-recognized 'brand' in the name of Kannadiga 
patriotism. One of my friends there said: "Our politicians cannot fix the 
traffic problem, the water problem, the pollution problem, so they 
renamed the city."
If looking at the colonial naming from the other side, of course, the 
simple answer is that the British had a collective 'tin ear'--how else 
could Livorno become Leghorn?  Or Kwantung become Canton?
de gustibus,
Frank
Frank F. Conlon
Professor Emeritus of History, South Asian
      Studies & Comparative Religion
University of Washington
Seattle, WA 98195-3560      USA
Co-editor, H-ASIA
Managing Director, Bibliography of Asian Studies Online
On Fri, 20 May 2011, Elena Bashir wrote:
