Obituary for Lucy Bulliet
Dear Professor Kirkpatrick (and list members),
I'm not sure if you are referring to the (planned) bibliography of  
Lucy's library of indological volumes, a list of her publications, or  
something else I am not aware of that she compiled as a bibliography.  
Although neither of the first two are planned for publication per se,  
either or both may certainly be shared (upon completion) individually  
with members of the list by contacting me (mbjones at utexas.edu).  
Further, a posthumous volume of an intended work of hers, an  
(undergrad level) introduction to Vedic Religion, may eventually be  
forthcoming, though at this point her progress has not been ascertained.
Thank you,
Michael Brattus Jones
Ph.D. student, Department of Asian Studies
University of Texas at Austin
Email: mbjones at utexas.edu
[jkirk at SPRO.NET]
Sent: Saturday, June 25, 2011 9:32 AM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Obituary for Lucy Bulliet
May I ask, will her valuable Bibliography be published in another
obituary?
Or is there one somewhere on Columbia's website?
Thanks,
Joanna Kirkpatrick
Michael Brattus Jones
Sent: Friday, June 24, 2011 7:38 PM
[INDOLOGY] Obituary for Lucy Bulliet
It is with great sadness that I pass along this obituary for Lucy
Bulliet, which was written by her husband Professor Richard
Bulliet of Columbia University.
- M. B. Jones
OBITUARY:
Dr. Lucianne Cherry Bulliet, who had taught Vedic Religion at
Columbia University for almost twenty years, succumbed to cancer
on March 2, 2011.  She was 71 years old.  Dr. Bulliet grew up in
San Diego, California, and graduated from Point Loma High School
and Pomona College.  She earned her doctoral degree in Sanskrit
and Indian
Studies at Harvard University under Professor Daniel H. H.
Ingalls.
Her scholarly interests focused on the earliest phases of Indian
religion and culture as manifested in ancient works written in
the Vedic language, and on the roots of Indo-European culture in
Central Asia.  She is survived by her husband Richard and son
Mark.
