Translations of Rig Veda Suparna Sukta (RV I.164)
My intention was to point to some of the plus points (there
are many) of the paper. Its subject matter, as the title shows, is different
from RV 1.164. Some verses have been taken up as relevant and their meaning, it
seemed to me, has been correctly understood. The information might be helpful
to the original enquirer.George's would-be-study is most welcome. 
Best
DB
?
?
Re: [INDOLOGY] Translations of Rig Veda Suparna Sukta (RV I.164)
Dear List,
?
There is also an English version of Jan's paper in JAOS 120.4 [Oct-Dec 2000].? This has a complete translation appended to it.? However, I do not think that Jan or anyone else has mastered or solved this hymn. In deference to Dipak, I will not mystery-monger.? But the hymn is certainly a brahmodya hymn with many still unsolved riddles.? ?I will include a translation and commentary in my forthcoming Rigveda anthology.
?
Best,
George
?
On Tue, May 31, 2011 at 1:54 PM, Dipak Bhattacharya <dbhattacharya200498 at yahoo.com> wrote:
31 05 11
Dear Colleagues,
I regret that I forgot to mention the following study extensively dealing, inter alia, with the relation between RV 1.164 and the Av?ntarad?k??/Pravargya. A worthwhile reading the approach of the author is marked by scrupulous avoidance of mystery-mongering and convincingly establishing the ritual connection, with what one may call a no nonsense approach without fanfare.
Best
DB 
?Transmission sans ?criture dans l?inde ancienne :?nigme et Structure rituelle?
Jan E. M. HOUBEN
as
?TUDES TH?MATIQUES 23 
?crire et transmettre en Inde classique
Sous la direction de G?rard COLAS et Gerdi GERSCHHEIMER
?cole fran?aise d?Extr?me-Orient
Paris, 2009
[INDOLOGY] Translations of Rig Veda Suparna Sukta (RV I.164)
A colleague asked me for recommended translations of the? Rig Veda Suparna Sukta (RV I.164).
I've been meaning to get around to working with it myself but, like so many things, I haven't gotten around to it.
Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated. 
Best,
Dean
