Rajesh Rao, Computing a Rosetta Stone for the Indus Script
After listening to Rao's talk and reading Sproat's article, I find myself wondering what the argument is about.  Here are some things that occur to me:
1. The seals were clearly used as stamps to indicate ownership. They then are either names or special combinations of signs to indicate a person or group.
2. Even if they are "writing," that is a system where each sign corresponds to a sound or group of sounds, they probably lack real syntax.  "Jack Sprat" doesn't tell us anything about English verb forms or any other syntactic features of the language, even though it is writing.
3. If the signs have no relationship to language, don't the seals contain too many of them for people to remember handily?  On the other hand, if the signs do correspond to syllables/words (fish symbol = m??, star), people would have a much easier way of remembering them -- instead of having to remember an abstract group of 12 symbols, they could just remember the system.
4. My last name is "Hart," and my father put big hearts on his shutters.  This is not writing, but the symbol clearly mirrors its pronunciation -- had my father been Russian-speaking, he would not have used a heart.
5. Is it not possible that there is some intermediate solution.  Why should the seals have no relationship whatsoever to the language they spoke?  This doesn't seem logical to me.  On the other hand, I doubt that they are "writing" in the sense we think of it, as we can't really expect to find complex syntactical and morphological structures in them.  It is certainly possible, I would think, that the IV people never developed writing in the way that other civilizations did, but that doesn't mean that they didn't have a system that contained phonetic correspondences with their own language.
I'm not entirely sure what Steve Farmer et al. are contending -- do they suggest there is no phonetic content whatsoever to the signs?  Everyone seems to agree that the order of the signs is not random.  Do they reflect any sort of underlying syntax, or are they arranged by some other system (Gods / Men / Animals)?
It also strikes me that if there were two people named "Hart," someone might put a pot over the heart to indicate that was the Hart that was also a potter as opposed to the Hart that ran an inn.  This would be a partially phonetic system.
None of this proves or disproves that the fish symbol might have been pronounced m??.
George Hart
On Jul 13, 2011, at 8:03 AM, Steve Farmer wrote:
