From kellner at ASIA-EUROPE.UNI-HEIDELBERG.DE  Fri Jul  8 15:25:18 2011
From: kellner at ASIA-EUROPE.UNI-HEIDELBERG.DE (Birgit Kellner)
Date: Fri, 08 Jul 11 17:25:18 +0200
Subject: Publication announcement: Religion and Lo gic in Buddhist              Philosophical Analysis (Proceed ings of Fourth International              Dharmak=?UTF-8?Q?=C4=ABrti?= Confe rence)
Message-ID: <161227093071.23782.3949849692032660194.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear colleagues,

it is my great pleasure to announce that the proceedings of the Fourth 
International Dharmak?rti Conference just appeared in print (and I 
humbly apologize for cross-posting):

Krasser, Helmut; Lasic, Horst; Franco, Eli; Kellner, Birgit (eds.): 
Religion and Logic in Buddhist Philosophical Analysis. Proceedings of 
the Fourth International Dharmakirti Conference Vienna, August 23-27, 
2005. Vienna 2011: Austrian Academy of Sciences Press (Beitr?ge zur 
Kultur- und Geistesgeschichte Asiens 69). ISBN13: 978-3-7001-7000-6. (69 
EUR).

Copies can be ordered online: 
http://verlag.oeaw.ac.at/products/Sachgebiete/Asienforschung/Religion-and-Logic-in-Buddhist-Philosophical-Analysis.html

The volume contains 36 essays on the Buddhist logical and 
epistemological tradition in India and Tibet, addressing its cultural, 
philosophical and religious significance. A number of contributions 
report on the remarkable (and very important) newly discovered Sanskrit 
texts by Dharmak?rti and his followers that have become available in 
recent years; the critical reception of Dharmak?rti's work in 
non-Buddhist traditions is likewise dealt with in several essays. And 
last, but most certainly not least, the volume also contains Ernst 
Steinkellner's opening speech at the conference: "News from the 
manuscript department".


List of contributions:

Piotr Balcerowicz, Dharmak?rti?s criticism of the Jaina doctrine of 
multiplexity of reality (anek?ntav?da)

Junjie Chu, Sanskrit fragments of Dharmak?rti?s Sant?n?ntarasiddhi

Vincent Eltschinger, Studies on Dharmak?rti?s religious philosophy (3): 
Compassion and its role in the general structure of PV 2 43

Koji Ezaki, Can we say that everything is ineffable? Udayana?s 
refutation of the theory of apoha

Eli Franco, Perception of yogis ? Some epistemological and metaphysical 
considerations

Toru Funayama, Kamala??la?s view on yogic perception and the bodhisattva 
paths

Brendan S. Gillon, Dharmak?rti on inference from effect. A discussion of 
verse 12 and the Svav?tti of the Sv?rth?num?na chapter of the 
Pram??av?rttika

Klaus Glashoff, Problems of transcribing avin?bh?va into predicate logic

Keijin Hayashi, Praj??karagupta?s interpretation of mental perception

Yoshichika Honda, Bhoja and Dharmak?rti

Pascale Hugon, Phya pa Chos kyi seng ge?s views on perception

Masahiro Inami, Nondual cognition

Hisataka Ishida, On the classification of any?poha

Takashi Iwata, Compassion in Buddhist logic ? Dharmak?rti?s view of 
compassion as interpreted by Praj??karagupta

Ky? Kan?, Dichotomy, antarvy?pti, and d????nta

Kei Kataoka, Manu and the Buddha for Kum?rila and Dharmak?rti

