The Indus script as proto-writing
Dear List,
It is interesting to note at a minimum that Asko's views (cited in  
full below) have radically changed since we published our 2004 paper.  
As Asko has generously pointed out in conferences that we have both  
attended -- most recently in Kyoto in 2009 -- due to our work he at  
least no longer claims that the so-called "Indus script" is full  
writing, but only qualifies as a "proto-writing" system.
The difference is not trivial, given his much more spectacular claims  
otherwise in his classic book on the so-called script (Parpola 1994)  
and in dozens of earlier and later articles, going back to the late  
1960s, when (like Rao 40 years later) Asko too claimed that he had  
"cracked the Indus code" using computers. (Asko, unlike Rao, later  
retracted his claims.)
So there has been big movement in the field since we published our  
paper in 2004.
However, the "proto-writing" idea Asko has in recent years adopted as  
a fall-back position doesn't work either, for quite obvious reasons we  
already discussed in our 2004 paper. (Over 200,000 reprints of that  
paper have been downloaded from my server alone since it was first  
published, but sometimes I wonder if anyone has actually read it  
through, given some of the odd comments made about it.)
On page 33 of that study, after discussing evidence of a lack of  
significant phoneticism in Indus symbol strings known from  
stratigraphic evidence to be exclusively very late (on bar  
inscriptions without iconography) we comment that this evidence
http://www.safarmer.com/fsw2
Asko below (and elsewhere) has tried to counter this argument by  
anachronistically citing Archaic Sumerian as a parallel example. That  
is a very strange claim: it seems quite odd to us to draw parallels  
between uniformly short Indus symbol strings from ca. 1900 BCE -- a  
very high literate period throughout the Middle East -- with "proto- 
writing" from the Sumerians as much as 1500 years earler! Again, to  
quote our original 2004 paper, to which no additional comment is needed:
And a period of high literacy it was indeed! We have hundreds of  
thousands of extraordinarily long texts from this period in the Middle  
East -- and at the same the Indus were supposedly still working out  
the principles of writing in their "proto-writing" system??
The same of course goes for Asko's comparisons to early Egyptian  
writing from the late 4th millennium BCE -- an odd comparison again to  
make surely with early 2nd millennium artifacts carrying  
excruciatingly short symbol strings from the Indus Valley.
Moreover, as we tried to point out to him in Kyoto in 2009, he  
repeatedly miscites Baines' work on this point . Asko writes, clearly  
thinking of (but not citing) our comments about the Indus system not  
evolving in phonetic directions for over 600 years (as discussed in  
evidence in the locus cited in our paper above):
I have in front of me Baines' fullest collection of his articles on  
early writing in Egypt, _Visual & Written Culture in Ancient Egypt_  
(Oxford 2007), which contains a number of his early and later essays  
on the origins of writing in Egypt. It contains a variety of  
illustrations of early Egyptian texts -- going back to *before* 3000  
BCE -- which are indeed "true writing" and are many times longer than  
*any* of the  thousands of short symbol chains we find from the Indus  
civilization from as much as well over a thousand years later.
The "proto-writing" thesis simply isn't any more credible than the  
"full writing" thesis that we buried in 2004.
Supposedly the Harappans couldn't figure out how to move from "proto- 
writing" to "full writing" for 600 years when their trade neighbors in  
the Near East were producing hundreds of thousands of massive texts?  
That wouldn't say much for the "Indus wisemen."
Massive and redundant evidence -- much of which Asko himself has  
gathered for us -- demonstrates that Indus symbols were of a different  
non-linguistic type. Moreover, similar non-linguistic symbol systems  
were common in the ancient world at the same time -- existing side-by- 
side with literate systems -- as we also discuss at length in our paper.
It is possible as Michael Witzel, Richard Sproat, and I have argued at  
considerable length -- also Steven Weber and Dorian Fuller, in papers  
we've given as far back as 2005 (again in Kyoto) -- to learn a great  
deal about the Indus civilization by systematically studying the  
spatial and geographical distribution of the signs using a  
computerized data base of known "inscriptions" -- aided by a special  
visual interface designed specifically for this purpose.
  Ironically, as we again argued in our original paper -- in part of  
it that is rarely cited, since everyone is still caught up in the  
(quite obvious) "it isn't a script" issue -- the symbols are more  
valuable to us as historical evidence simply because they are NOT part  
of a writing system.
In Kyoto in 2009 we offered to finance (up to $100,000!)  through the  
Cultural Modeling Research Group the creation of an online data base  
of the signs optimized for such purposes. Asko, Richard Meadow, and  
Mark Kenoyer among others were invited to join us in the Project. Our  
view is that once the evidence that we have access to was made more  
accessible to the public -- now the evidence is buried in  
extraordinarily expensive volumes --  the *obviousness* of the non- 
linguistic nature of the signs would be evident to everyone.
Asko declined the offer.
We are happy however that Asko at least no longer views the Indus  
signs as part or a full writing system, capable (as he suggested in  
his book in 1994: 54) of encoding long narratives of the sort found  
throughout the Ancient Near East in the same time period./
But the "proto-writing" thesis is no more credible, for reasons  
quickly sketched above. It is unfortunate given all the wonderful new  
evidence that we have in the symbols to still be caught up in "Indus  
script" discussions, which asks all the wrong questions.
The Indus civilization is much more interesting for what is was, and  
not for what many -- some with nationalist political agendas -- have  
imagined it to be. That is the theme of a book that Michael Witzel and  
I have wanted to write for some years (_Indus Valley Fantasies_) but  
have not yet found the time to put together.
Sorry again for the very quick note: on tight deadlines.
Best,
Steve Farmer
On Jul 14, 2011, at 7:50 AM, Asko Parpola wrote:
