Telugu position in Chicago
Dear Colleagues,
Please circulate the job posting appended below, wherever it may meet 
with interest.
Yours,
Gary.
Gary Tubb, Professor and Chair
Department of South Asian Languages and Civilizations
The University of Chicago
[appended announcement begins:]
LECTURER IN TELUGU
The Department of South Asian Languages and Civilizations, University of 
Chicago, invites applications for a full-time Lecturer in Telugu. 
Appointment will be for one year, with possible renewal dependent upon 
funding and satisfactory review. The appointment is expected to begin 
Autumn 2011. Position and renewal are contingent upon budgetary approval.
The Lecturer will teach a minimum of six courses per year, distributed 
over autumn, winter, and spring quarters. Courses will be regular 
language courses in modern spoken and written Telugu within the two 
levels of first-year and second-year Telugu. Language lecturers are also 
expected to work one-on-one with advanced students as the need arises as 
well as offer occasional Reading Courses to individual students. 
Familiarity with Classical Telugu is desirable. The Lecturer will take 
part in workshops, departmental meetings, colloquia, and informal events 
directed toward graduate training and development.
M.A. or Ph.D. preferred in a relevant Humanities discipline.
Application materials should be submitted as follows:
(1) Cover letter and CV must be uploaded to the Academic Careers 
Opportunities website at (http://tinyurl.com/3o9sc43) Requisition 00979
(2) Two letters of support must be emailed to: 
salcsearches at lists.uchicago.edu with subject heading "Telugu Search"
(3) Signed, hard-copy letters of support should be mailed to:
Telugu Search
South Asian Languages and Civilizations
University of Chicago
1130 E 59th Street
Chicago IL 60637 U.S.A
For full consideration electronic materials should be submitted by 
October 1, 2011. Review of applications will commence October 3, 2011, 
and will continue until position is filled. All materials, both 
electronic and hard copy must arrive by October 18, 2011.
**
[:appended announcement ends]
