From pankajaindia at GMAIL.COM  Fri Oct  7 22:59:51 2011
From: pankajaindia at GMAIL.COM (Pankaj Jain)
Date: Fri, 07 Oct 11 23:59:51 +0100
Subject: Postion for PROFESSOR OF SOUTH ASIAN MEDIA,              CULTURE & ARTS at Univ. of North Texas
Message-ID: <161227094021.23782.15379084717125730524.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

&#1048577; &#1048578;&#1048577;
PROFESSOR OF SOUTH ASIAN MEDIA, CULTURE & ARTS
Position:
The University of North Texas invites applications for a tenured appointment at the rank of
Professor to begin Fall 2012. The successful candidate will lead a university-wide research
collaborative in South Asian Media, Culture & Arts. The primary appointment may be in the
Mayborn School of Journalism (http://journalism.unt.edu), which consists of the departments of
News and Strategic Communications and the Frank W. Mayborn Graduate Institute of Journalism,
but primary or secondary appointments are also possible in related departments depending upon 
the
appointee?s expertise and interests.
Rank and Salary:
Professor. Salary is competitive, commensurate with experience and background.
Responsibilities:
The successful candidate will play a key role in establishing a multidisciplinary research
collaborative in South Asian Media, Culture & Arts at the University of North Texas. He or she will
be expected to organize and lead colleagues in various disciplines of South Asian studies, and
spearhead projects that include interdisciplinary faculty.
Qualifications:
An earned Ph.D. in journalism, communications or related field is required, as is a record of
publication related to South Asia. Candidates will have a distinguished record of publication and
other accomplishments to merit appointment at a rank of full professor with tenure. The following
additional accomplishments are preferred:
(1) Peer-reviewed publications focused on South Asia in one or more of the following areas:
Media studies, media performance, media production, media criticism, legal studies, political
communication, government, entertainment studies, religion studies, culture studies, linguistics,
literature, journalism, philosophy, history, art, sociology, anthropology, music, and classical or
modern South Asian languages relevant to research area;
(2) Institutional connections or collaborations in one or more of the following
nations: India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, and Myanmar; and
(3) Professional experience, or a highly visible profile, in the news, advertising, marketing, or
public relations industries.
The University:
The University of North Texas has embarked on a major multi-year university initiative to
hire new faculty and make significant infrastructure changes to enhance and expand research. UNT
is seeking to fill multiple faculty positions, largely at the senior level, to join with existing faculty to
build new and existing cross-disciplinary research collaboratives in strategically selected areas
(http://research.unt.edu/clusters). The new faculty members will have significant opportunities to
&#1048577; &#1048578;&#1048577;
shape expansion and growth of the research initiatives. The University of North Texas is located 35
miles North of Dallas and Fort Worth. It is the fourth largest university in Texas with approximately
36,000 students registered in 97 bachelors, 88 masters, and 40 doctoral degree programs.
Application:
Applications must be submitted electronically via the UNT faculty career site at:
http://facultyjobs.unt.edu. A cover letter that includes a statement of research interest, a CV, and
names and contact information of at least three references are required. Questions about the
position may be directed to:
Nikhil Moro, Ph.D.
Chair, Search Committee
940-565-2268 (voice); Nikhil.Moro at unt.edu
Review:
Review of applications will begin immediately, and continue until the search is closed. References
will be contacted in an advanced stage of screening. Appointment could begin as early as Fall 
2012.
The University of North Texas is an AA/ADA/EOE committed to diversity in its
educational programs.
* * *




