J. Ph. Vogel
A propose this question, may I bring to the attention of interested
colleagues a lovely and very informative book by my colleague Gerda
Theuns-de Boer which, however, may have come in below the radar:
A Vision of Splendour, Indian Heritage in the Photographs of Jean Philippe
Vogel, 1901- 1913
*ISBN:* 978 094 414 2745
Mapin Publishing, 2008.
A summary:
**
In January 1901 the Dutch Sanskritist Jean Philippe Vogel (1871 - 1958)
entered the Archaeological Survey of India to direct the activities for the
Panjab, Baluchistan and Ajmir Circle - later amalgated into the Panjab and
United Provinces Circle. An interesting period, as the survey stood on the
threshold of renewal. Jean Philippe Vogel proved by personality and
scholarship the right man to assist in realizing the gradual
professionalization of Indian archaeology.
This book highlights Vogel?s contribution to early 20th century archaeology,
including an introductory retrospect study on 19th-century Indian
archaeology. It provides extensive photographic documentation, prints dating
from 1870 to 1920, presented in their art- and photo-historical context. It
discusses Vogel?s visionary ideas in the field of preservation and
restoration, research and care for museum collections. Vogel?s diaries and
letters are valuable resources that allow for an interesting conclusion on
social relations within the so-called ?archaeological family?, picturing the
Dutch citizen Vogel moving around in India?s colonial society, discussing
his thoughts on both ?Englishmen? and ?natives?. With special references to
Vogel?s explorations and excavations in Gandhara, The Punjab Hill States
(Chamba), Kasia (Kusinagara), Saheth-Maheth (Sravasti) and Mathura; it also
includes a chronology on Vogel?s archaeological activities.
On Fri, Oct 21, 2011 at 10:14 AM, Elliot M. Stern <emstern at verizon.net>wrote:
J. Silk
Instituut Kern / Universiteit Leiden
Leiden University Institute for Area Studies, LIAS
Johan Huizinga Building, Room 1.37
Doelensteeg 16
2311 VL Leiden
The Netherlands
