The VirAdha Episode
Dear Colleagues:
A few thoughts on the  VirAdha episode:
Adheesh is no doubt correct to read the VirAdha episode as a dramatic  
foreshadowing of the central narrative and emotional moment of the  
poem i.e.  SItA's fateful abduction at the hands of RAva?a. Both epic  
poets like to reinforce or overdetermine such critical thematic  
elements as we can see also in the multiple assaults on DraupadI in  
the MBh at the hands of KIcaka and Jayadratha which echo, as it were  
her abuse at the hands of Duryodhana and DuHZAsana.
But the episode appears to serve some other interesting functions as  
well. For one thing it marks the exiled trio's passage from the  
romantic, sylvan setting of CitrakUTa into the deeper, more fearsome  
forests of the Da??aka peopled only by monstrous, flesh-easting  
r?kSasas and their prey, the pious AZram-dwelling sages. Then, too it  
provides the poet with another opportunity like the one afforded by  
the AhalyA episode in the BAlakANDa to demonstrate that his hero,  
although to all appearances a man, possesses the power to grant  
salvation through the release from curses incurred as a result of  
wrongful acts.
In addition, as I pointed out in an earlier article, ("RAmaH  
SahalakSmaNaH" Journal of Indian Philosophy 8. 1980 pp, 149-189,  
footnote 47) it affords the poet with yet another occasion to  
highlight the complementary emotional responses of RAma and LakSmaNa.   
Earlier, when the order of banishment is given, the latter is filled  
with rage and prepares to contest it violently; but R?ma calms him and  
graciously accepts his exile and loss of the throne. Later, when RAma  
is provoked to fearsome rage by the abduction of SItA, it is LakSmaNa  
who is the voice of calmness and constructive action,  Here,  
interestingly, RAma's first reaction to VirAdha's assault is  
debilitating grief and it is necessary for LakSmaNa to exhort him and  
stir him from his despair and complaining to action.
As far as the comparison with Antaka, it is likely that one is reading  
too much into it. This is a standard and even cliched simile in the  
epic for a fearsome warrior or adversary. VAlmIki uses it dozens of  
times, especially of course in the YuddhakANDa where a wide range of  
figures on both sides of the war are likened to Anataka, Yama, and/or  
KAla.
Finally, I think we should not over interpret the numbers used in the  
passage. The poem is filled with numbers: numbers of years, numbers of  
arrows, numbers of heads, numbers of rAkSasas, numbers of vAnaras  
ranging from the low integers to vast astronomical numbers. If we are  
to read each of these numbers as coded references to metaphysical or  
cosmological concepts there would never be an end of it. Perhaps  
sometimes numbers are just that, numbers.
Dr. R. P.  Goldman
Professor of Sanskrit
Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies
MC # 2540
The University of California at Berkeley
Berkeley, CA 94720-2540
Fax: 510-642-2409
On Nov 21, 2011, at 4:42 AM, Adheesh Sathaye wrote:
