Indus signs on birch bark folio in Sultani Museum,              Kabul: continuous or reinvented use?
Dear Jan,
I already responded to you about this off-List, and also about other issues you've asked about (especially the Gandharan thesis that Michael W. and I developed, re. new ways of dating Vedic manuscripts). 
But to rehearse all the arguments about the fake bark manuscript (made in the 21st century!) is superfluous, since many of us now have discussed the obvious evidence that it is a fake on the Indo-Eurasian Research List, starting with message #15562. 
Our archives are open to everyone, not closed. Just go here:
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Indo-Eurasian_research/
Then click on "messages." You'll also find info there on joining the List, if you want. We aren't an Indology list per se -- we deal with cross-cultural issues in antiquity -- but many Indologists are among our core members. 
To go right to the messages, go here:
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Indo-Eurasian_research/messages
Note that there are messages quoted in there on the faked manuscript from the writer of the BA thesis (who wrote me yesterday saying she knew it was a forgery) and others iI've mentioned.
What is the motive in making such a forgery? Well, what would a *real* Indus manuscript -- quite impossible -- be worth? As Asko Parpola notes in a message quoted on our List (by Naga Ganesan), when manuscripts that Askop says are written in the same hand as this fake went on the market in London (around 2003) the price was millions of pounds. 
If the thing were legitimate and not a clumsy fake, it would be solid evidence of "writing" in the Indus Valley, and as the earliest Indian "writing" would be bought for millions and displayed with nationalistic pride in New Delhi.
Do look at the arguments presented by many people (me, Michael, Richard Sproat, others) in the IER List. On earlier, possibly related, forgeries on bark of "Indus manuscripts," see this newsletter from 2003, posted on our List by Ron Davidson of Fairfield University:
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Indo-Eurasian_research/message/15568
I second Ron's comments about how distressing it is that any serious researcher could get "suckered" into thinking this obvious fake is real.
Best,
Steve
On Nov 18, 2011, at 11:52 AM, Jan E.M. Houben wrote:
