Updated Web Address - Assistant Professor, Tamil Studies,              UC Berkeley
Dear Colleagues
Please find attached in PDF and inline below, an updated version of the
Announcement of a Position in Tamil Studies at UC Berkeley.
The update relates only to the web address for the University's statement
on confidentiality to which referees should be directed; all other details
remain the same.
With best wishes,
Penny Edwards, Chair, Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies
Assistant Professor, Tamil Studies, University of California, Berkeley
The Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies, University of
California, Berkeley, seeks to appoint an Assistant Professor of Tamil
Studies (tenure-track) with a research specialization in literature and
culture. PhD required. July 1, 2012 start. Duties will include teaching and
developing graduate and undergraduate courses, co-ordination of Tamil
language instruction, and supervision of graduate degree candidates.  Advanced
proficiency in both pre-modern and modern Tamil and in-depth knowledge of
Tamil literary genres is required. Appreciation of the broader contexts in
which Tamil textual practices and poetics have developed, is desired.
Research knowledge of a second South or Southeast Asian language will be
highly regarded.   Applications from scholars of comparative literature,
history, gender studies and/or cultural studies are welcome.  The
successful candidate will have demonstrated exceptional promise in research
and teaching.
Applications must include a statement of research plans and teaching
interests, a CV (~ 3 pages), up to three significant writing samples (~ 30
pages each), and sample syllabi.  Applicants must arrange for direct
submission of three letters of recommendation. Please direct referees to
the University?s statement on confidentiality at
http://apo.chance.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html.  Applications and signed
letters of recommendation must be received by January 10, 2012.   Email to
tamilsearch at lists.berkeley.edu or mail to Chair, Tamil Search Committee,
Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies, 7233 Dwinelle #2540,
University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-2540, USA. The department
seeks candidates whose research and teaching has prepared them to
contribute to our commitment to diversity and inclusion in higher education.
The University of California, Berkeley is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative
Action Employer and is committed to addressing the family needs of faculty,
including dual career couples and single parents (see
http://calcierge.berkeley.edu/ for details).
