From pennyedwards.dsseas at GMAIL.COM  Sun Nov 27 17:17:52 2011
From: pennyedwards.dsseas at GMAIL.COM (Penny Edwards)
Date: Sun, 27 Nov 11 09:17:52 -0800
Subject: Assistant Professor, Tamil Studies, University of California,              Berkeley
Message-ID: <161227094566.23782.16341561745064541338.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Colleagues,

I am delighted to announce an opening for an Assistant Professor of Tamil
Studies (tenure-track), in the Department of South and Southeast Asian
Studies, University of California, Berkeley. The advertisement is included
below.

This announcement is also scheduled to appear on, inter alia, H-Net,
Classical Tamil, Modern Languages Association, and other lists/sites.
Apologies in advance for multiple postings that you might receive.

Further information about the Department of South and Southeast Asian
Studies, and about Tamil studies at U C Berkeley, can be found at

http://sseas.berkeley.edu

http://tamil.berkeley.edu

Please feel free to contact me with any general queries about this
position, at  pennyedwards.dsseas at gmail.com  cc.   pennyedwards at berkeley.edu

With best wishes,

Penny Edwards
Chair, Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies,
University of California, Berkeley

-----------------

Assistant Professor of Tamil Studies

The Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies, University of
California, Berkeley, seeks to appoint an Assistant Professor of Tamil
Studies (tenure-track) with a research specialization in literature and
culture. PhD required. July 1, 2012 start. Duties will include teaching and
developing graduate and undergraduate courses, co-ordination of Tamil
language instruction, and supervision of graduate degree candidates.  Advanced
proficiency in both pre-modern and modern Tamil and in-depth knowledge of
Tamil literary genres is required. Appreciation of the broader contexts in
which Tamil textual practices and poetics have developed, is desired.
Research knowledge of a second South or Southeast Asian language will be
highly regarded.   Applications from scholars of comparative literature,
history, gender studies and/or cultural studies are welcome.  The
successful candidate will have demonstrated exceptional promise in research
and teaching.



Applications must include a statement of research plans and teaching
interests, a CV (~ 3 pages), up to three significant writing samples (~ 30
pages each), and sample syllabi.  Applicants must arrange for direct
submission of three letters of recommendation. Please direct referees to
the University?s statement on confidentiality at *
www.chance.berkeley.edu/apo/evalltr.html*.  Applications and signed letters
of recommendation must be received by January 10, 2012.   Email to
tamilsearch at lists.berkeley.edu or mail to Chair, Tamil Search Committee,
Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies, 7233 Dwinelle #2540,
University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-2540, USA. The department
seeks candidates whose research and teaching has prepared them to
contribute to our commitment to diversity and inclusion in higher education.
  The University of California, Berkeley is an Equal
Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and is committed to addressing the
family needs of faculty, including dual career couples and single parents
(see http://calcierge.berkeley.edu for details).


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20111127/871da86f/attachment.htm>

