De Nobili Research Library Prize for 2012
Announcing the ?De Nobili Research Library Prize? for 2012
The association ?De Nobili Research Library ? Association for Indology and
the Study of Religion?, Vienna, aims to promote research on Indian
religions, especially from the point of view of the mutual encounter
between Christian spirituality as well as Christianity and Western thought
in general, and the various manifestations of Indian religiosity. To
further this aim, the Association disseminates the results of such
research through the organisation of symposia and public lectures, and
especially through its two publication series (see
http://www.istb.univie.ac.at/cgi-bin/sdn/sdn.cgi).
This year, the Association decided to promote its aims in still another
way. It herewith announces, for the first time, an essay competition.
Students, young researchers and others interested in the Christian
encounter with Indian religions are cordially invited to submit an essay
on the topic ?Dimensions of the Christian Encounter with the Religions of
India: Aims, Possibilities, Ramifications?. The previously unpublished
essays may be written in English or German, and should amount to
approximately 18,000 words. A prize committee consisting of members of the
Association and an external referee will evaluate the submitted essays in
a double-blind review process. The best essay will be awarded with the ?De
Nobili Research Library Prize? for 2012; the prize money amounts to ?
2,500. The prize may be shared by two winners.
Essays should be formatted in 12 pt, with 1.5 line spacing, and submitted
in PDF-format until May 20, 2012, the 407th anniversary of Roberto de
Nobili?s arrival in India, to the Deputy Secretary of the Association, Dr.
Marcus Schm?cker, at Marcus.Schmuecker at oeaw.ac.at.
With best regards,
Karin Preisendanz, Chairperson of the Association
Karin Preisendanz
Institut f?r S?dasien-, Tibet- und Buddhismuskunde
Universit?t Wien
Spitalgasse 2-4, Hof 2, Eingang 2.1
A-1090 Wien
?sterreich
