Namaste Merry Christmas
Dear professor:
Merry Christmas. Please try to pass and help in this petition:
On Monday, December 19th, in Tomsk, Russia, a historic court case is taking
place. Some of our movement's detractors are making a major court case,
attempting to establish that Srila Prabhupada's Bhagavad Gita As It Is is is
"extremist literature" and on these grounds have it banned throughout the
country. The implications for ISKCON in Russia and even in the former USSR
are far reaching.
If the devotees lose this case all Srila Prabhupada's books may be banned
because they are full of quotations from the Gita. Seeing all of our
activities are based on Bhagavad Gita it could conceivably lead to attempts
to close our movement in some places.
The prosecutors are pushing this absurd case with great determination and
vigor. There have already been three court hearings, in which the testimony
of the so called "experts" gathered by the prosecutors was recognized as
being inadequate. However, the prosecutor's office has requested new
testimony, not from well-known experts on Hinduism from Moscow, but from
some unknown academics from a local Siberian university. This move clearly
suggests that a particular court decision is being engineered. Their
approach brings to mind the Inquisitions of the Middle Ages, witch hunts,
and the burning of books and persecution of dissidents during the Soviet
period of Russian history.
Please announce at your Sunday feasts that the programme is being offered to
the Lord as an appeal that if He so desires He may help the devotees win
this case.
The GBC Executive Committee also hereby requests all? scholar in Hinduism to sign
an online petition which will be presented to the court on Monday, showing
international support for Srila Prabhupada's Bhagavad Gita. Please sign at:
http://www.petitions24.com/gita
It is in both English and Russian. Please pass the link on to your friends,
and encourage whoever you can to sign.
We also request all the followers of Srila Prabhupada to pray to Lord
Krishna and Lord Nrsimhadeva to protect his movement in Russia, and to help
the devotees' efforts in court there to be successful.
Hoping this meets you well.
Hare Krsna,
Your servants,
The GBC Executive Committee,
Hrdaya Caitanya das (Chairman)
Bhakti Caitanya Swami
Tamohara das
Dr. Horacio Francisco Arganis Ju?rez
Lic. M.A. Ph. D. Catedr?tico Investigador de la Universidad
Internacional Euroamericana.
Departamento de Filosof?a y Religi?n Comparada.
Miembro del Instituto de Estudios Filos?ficos de Saltillo A. C.
www.uie.edu.es
