Beweisf?hrung" (= "From indology to genocide - the continuity constructs of 
Sheldon Pollock and his epigones in the light of their submission of evidence").
The title of this article clearly states that my focus is on Pollock's "Deep orientalism? 
..." (1993), especially - (1.) its "theorizing" of an alleged complicity of "German 
indology" with the crimes of the National Socialist era (1933-1945), - (2.) the 
*EVIDENCE* Pollock submits in support of this charge, and - (3.) the shape 
Pollock's theorizing takes in the hands of his numerous epigones, illustrated by 
Houben's report of the "Deutscher Orientalistentag" (=German Orientalist Congress) 
1995.
The guiding principle of my article, as well as of my approach in general, is to follow 
up as closely as possible whatever Pollock and his epigones present by way of 
evidence, or what could possibly be taken for such. I have no ambition to 
"construct" my own history of "German indology", let alone to liberate "each and 
every German indologist of the 1900-1945 period from any possible association with 
the German government and its disastrous ideology of the pure Aryan race", as 
Houben claims (Fri, 5 Jan 2007 10:13:01), presumably against better knowledge.
I strictly confine myself to a comprehensive evaluation of all *EVIDENCE* 
submitted to prove Pollock's claim of a relation between "German indology" and the 
National Socialist ideology. Speculations, opinions, etc., are outside the scope of 
my evaluation. The same applies to an aspect Houben tries to push to the 
foreground, viz., what he calls the "discontinuity" of the post-1945 era. But as long 
as the "continuity" bit of Houben's stance, i.e., the alleged involvement of "German 
indology" in NS ideology, has not been proven to rest on sound *EVIDENCE*, the 
question of a "discontinuity" simply doesn't arise!
Should it turn out in the course of my evaluation that the submitted *EVIDENCE* is 
invalid, flawed, or illusory, I take the liberty to consider all pronouncements based 
on it misleading - as I have done in the said article.

One more word on *EVIDENCE*: In my article I have chosen to discuss Jan 
Houben's 1995 report as an example of the epigonal wake of Pollock's "Deep 
orientalism?..." - a choice Houben has no "authoritative" say in, although he may 
find that hard to put up with. I chose his report to illustrate the percolation of 
Pollock's "Deep orientalism?..." down to the shallow postorientalist platitudes 
disseminated in countless remarks of similar hue. What raises Houben's above 
many others (to be treated elsewhere), and what attracted my attention, is - (1.) his 
attitude of the "well-informed" indologist handing out authoritative hints to those less 
knowledgeable in the field, and - (2.) his reference to "selected articles and notices 
of the volumes 92-98 (1938-44) and 99 (1945-49)" of the Zeitschrift der Deutschen 
Morgenl?ndischen Gesellschaft (ZDMG) in corroboration of the alleged connection 
between indology and the ideology of the National Socialist regime.

That said, I can understand that Jan Houben is not happy with my choice - although 
he is still "very happy" with his report, as he assures. Nonetheless, he constantly 
tries to draw attention away from it by introducing other material, all of it published 
much later. A few years ago, when I was first led up that path with the same 
summary hints at post-1995 publications, it soon became clear that the post-festum 
material thrown into the debate was irrelevant to *THE QUESTION*, and therefore I 
didn't see any reason to give it further consideration. In view of Houben's recent 
insistence that I must comply with his will, no matter what, in order to prove myself 
qualified to discuss his 1995 report, I have looked into the matter again, and with 
the same result. This will be exemplified below with regard to his 1999 article in 
Asiatische Studien. I have also obediently revisited "Beyond Orientalism ..." ed. by 
E. Franco and K. Preisendanz, a book of 673 pages (without index), in which the 
discussion of pertinent racial theories does not go much beyond occasional 
references (e.g., Pollock's ideas are mentioned, but not discussed at any length). 
Therefore I see no reason to overburden the present discussion with these 
additional materials, unless Houben points out where exactly he sees *THE 
QUESTION* featuring in them.


HOUBEN'S *STATEMENT*

The bone of contention between Houben and me is the following section of his 1995 
report:
	Vergangenheit Bewaltigung
    To the extent that indology in general owes a great debt to the contributions 
    of German indology, it also has to come to terms with some of the more 
    problematic aspects of the history of the latter. I am referring here, of 
    course, to the positive relations which some indologists at least maintained 
    with the German government and its disastrous ideology of the 'pure Aryan 
    race' before and during the period of the Second World War period. 
    Essential reading for a well-informed discussion on this sensitive topic 
    should comprise S. Pollock?s provocative "Deep Orientalism (...)", passages 
    from Halbfass' "India and Europe" [specified by Houben Fri, 5 Jan 2007 
    10:13:01: "Halbfass 1988: 139-140"], and selected articles and notices of the 
    volumes 92-98 (1938-44) and 99 (1945-49) of the Zeitschrift f?r die 
    Deutsche Morgenl?ndische Gesellschaft. 
As I have pointed out earlier (Mon, 8 Jan 2007 12:43:48), the use of the term 
"Vergangenheitsbew?ltigung" in the chapter heading inevitably suggests some kind 
of involvement of "German indology" in the crimes committed during the National 
Socialist regime 1933-1945. But after I had pointed that out, Houben simply 
extended his "authoritative exegetical" title to the German language by brushing 
over this "restricted sense" of the term (Fri, 12 Jan 2007 03:03:54). As for the 
accompanying reminder of his introductory appraisal (just leading over from the 
previous section), as well as his pseudo-psychological musings on "fear", 
"punishment" etc., they are all beside the point and will not concern me here.

In the hope that this will preclude further accusations of "distortive reformulation" 
etc., I confine myself to Houben's own words, which unambiguously state that he 
sees the "more problematic aspects" of the history of "German indology" in a 
"positive relations" of "at least some" indologists "with the German government and 
its disastrous ideology of the 'pure Aryan race'". There can be no reasonable doubt 
that Houben's statement (henceforth: *STATEMENT*) answers *THE QUESTION* 
in the affirmative.



HOUBEN'S *EVIDENCE*

As for *EVIDENCE* in support of the above *STATEMENT*, Houben then presents 
a shortlist of "essential reading for a well-informed discussion of this sensitive 
topic", opening with Pollock's "Deep Orientalism?...".
First, there can be no reasonable doubt that the "sensitive topic" Houben refers to is 
*THE QUESTION* of a connection between "German indology" of the National 
Socialist era (1933-1945) and "the German government and its disastrous ideology 
of the 'pure Aryan race'", if only for the reason that there is no other "sensitive topic" 
in sight within miles of his *STATEMENT*.
But supposing Houben would object that his reference to Pollock was not intended 
as an endorsement of Pollock's "theorizing" of that "sensitive topic", it may be asked 
how Pollock then comes to take pride of place in Houben's list of required reading 
on that same topic. 
In addition, it may be asked what purpose Houben's reference to Pollock's "Deep 
Orientalism?..." could possibly serve, other than as *EVIDENCE* in support of 
Houben's *STATEMENT*. The answer is: none - for the simple reason that there is 
no other aspect in Pollock's "Deep Orientalism?..." that Houben could refer to in the 
given context. In fact, the part of "Deep Orientalism?..." that deals with "German 
indology" is about little else than Pollock's "theory" of an involvement of German 
indologists in "the ultimate 'orientalist' project, the legitimation of genocide" (Pollock 
1993:96). 
And there is another aspect of Pollock's "theorizing" that has to be considered here 
because it precludes the possibility that Houben may have referred to Pollock with 
regard to the "discontinuity theme", which now seems destined to become Houben's 
preferred escape route: Pollock doesn't even contemplate the possibility of a 
"discontinuity", or rather, his idea of "discontinuity" is a lethal one (Pollock 
1993:111):
