Making the Argument for Sanskrit : a Real Problem and              Directions for a Solution
With regard to some comments,
Perhaps Professor Witzel and I disagree about the effectiveness of
letter-writing campaigns by academics generally. That said, I have
personally written a short note myself in solidarity to the relevant
State and Federal Education Ministers as well as the German equivalent
of the Berlin University Vice-Chancellor. Others should do so as well.
My essential point however remains. We should perhaps begin to frame
our arguments in different ways and not rely on letters from
international scholars to persuade the bean-counters in various
University administrations. Without a realisation of the growing
commercialisation of Higher Education around the world, Indologists
risk being swept away in its wake. Professor Witzel does raise an
excellent point about the international sanskrit association however.
Surely it is within the aims and objectives of this association to
take an activist role in challenges such as this? Would it be
appropriate for someone to update this list on the Association's
response to the Berlin situation?
Professor Kirk I am very aware of the ongoing battle in the US with
the forces of Hindutva revisionism. It goes without saying that
academic researchers should never accept funding by those who wish to
tie funding to ideological and revisionist outcomes.
At this stage though, as far as I am aware, the US situation seems to
be relatively contained therein. In Australia and the rest of Europe
(to my knowledge) we don't have elected school boards or an elected
judiciary so there is far less scope for the kind of tactics that the
saffron forces have used in the US.
In a peculiar way though, perhaps the California case will inspire
more people to learn sanskrit as its ongoing relevance in even modern
political debate becomes more obvious!
Kind regards,
Antonio Ferreira-Jardim
UQ
Australia
On 1/5/07, Michael Witzel <witzel at fas.harvard.edu> wrote:
