Indology and "the disastrous  ideology of the 'pure Aryan              race'"
Am 09.01.2007 um 23:35 schrieb George Thompson:
I would say, that the "Ahnenerbe-Stiftung Verlag" as the publication  
unit of the "Ahnenerbe" was special in several regards. The  
"Ahnenerbe" was originally an association funded by the SS (in the  
mid-thirties), later it became directly a department of or in the SS.  
Its leading figure was Himmler himself, the chief executive and  
scholarly directors belonged also to the SS. At the onset, it was a  
playground for certain un-academic theories that Himmler wanted to  
support in some way (mainly the prehistorical symbol theories of  
Herman Wirth and the so-called "Welt-Eis-Lehre", a cosmogonical  
theory by the Austrian Hanns H?rbiger). Later in the thirties, the  
first director Herman Wirth was replaced by the indologist Walther  
W?st; and under W?st the organisation took a more "scholarly" turn.  
One objective was to gain a foothold in the universities or,  
generally, in the academic world (mainly directed against similar  
activities of Alfred Rosenberg). This involved funding of research  
projects. And in this context one has to see the publication of Franz  
Altheim. It is the output of a project for which he got financial  
support from the Ahnenerbe (or the SS if you like). Detailed  
background information on Altheim's involvement can be found in a  
monograph by V. Loseman (based not only on published but also on  
unpublished archive materials):
Losemann, Volker: Nationalsozialismus und Antike : Studien zur  
Entwicklung des Faches Alte Geschichte 1933 - 1945 / Volker Losemann.  
- Hamburg : Hoffmann und Campe, 1977. - 283 p. - (Historische  
Perspektiven ; 7). - ISBN 3-455-09219-5
Short version of the original Ph.D. thesis: Losemann, Volker: Antike  
und Nationalsozialismus, Marburg, Univ., Diss., 1975
So far I know, Walther W?st was the only indologist who was a member  
the Ahnenerbe. Its main focus was at first Germanic folklore (under  
the perspective of H. Wirth's symbol theories), later under W?st  
cultural or university politics (infiltration into the university  
system, taking over of scholarly journals etc.). After the breakout  
of the war the Ahnenerbe became even more sinister; a natural  
sciences department was build under the label  
"kriegswissenschaftliche Zweckforschung". Medical doctors who  
belonged to this department were involved in experiments with human  
beings (e.g. S. Rascher in Dachau). On this see the recent  
publication of Heather Pringle: The master plan : Himmler's scholars  
and the Holocaust / Heather Pringle. - London : Fourth Estate, 2006.  
- xii, 463 p. : ill. - ISBN 0-00-714812-7
Gerd Simon, a scholar in German studies from T?bingen, has announced  
for 2007 or 2008 a monograph on Walther W?st and his role. According  
to the announcement the title will be:
Mit Akribie und Bluff ins Zentrum der Macht : Walther W?st und das  
'Etymologische und vergleichende W?rterbuch des Altindoarischen' /  
Gerd Simon unter Mitwirkung von Dieter M. Walther Back. ISBN  
3-932613-05-8
(Due in 2008, according to the list of publications: http:// 
homepages.uni-tuebingen.de/gerd.simon/Werbung.pdf)
All the best
Peter Wyzlic
Peter Wyzlic
pwyzlic at uni-bonn.de
