    From its colonial origins in Justice Sir William to its consummation in SS 
    Obersturmf?hrer W?st, Sanskrit and Indian studies have contributed directly 
    to consolidating and sustaining programs of domination. (...) In a 
    postcolonial and post-Holocaust world, however, these traditional 
    foundations and uses of Indology have disappeared, and the current self-
    interrogations within our field may (...) somehow be responding to this new 
    impotence and the loss of purpose in scholarly activity that it implies. In 
    other words, if Indological knowledge has historically been coexistent with 
    vanished institutions of coercive power, then the production of such 
    knowledge no longer serves its primary and defining purpose. Our obsession 
    with orientalism over the past decade might suggest that Indologists, who 
    have begun to realize their historical implication in domination only now that 
    it has ended, no longer know why they are doing what they do".
So much for Pollock's postcolonial funeral sermon. This is not the place to discuss 
his article at length - something I have taken up in my contribution to the FS Roth, 
and shall continue in a separate publication [cf. also Tue, 9 Jan 2007 11:42:48].
The next item on Houben's list is "passages from Halbfass's 'India and Europe' 
(Albany, 1988)", later specified to "Halbfass 1988:139-140" (see Fri, 5 Jan 2007 
10:13:01). Now, in the said passage, Wilhelm Halfass merely lists some 
protagonists of "the Aryan myth and speculative ideas about India", none of whom 
are indologist, and none of whom Halbfass associated with the "ideology of the 'pure 
Aryan race'". Furthermore, no trace of the "discontinuity theme" here either [cf. also 
Tue, 9 Jan 2007 11:42:48]!
Now to the third item on Houben's list, viz., "selected articles and notices of the 
volumes 92-98 (1938-44) and 99 (1945-49)" of the ZDMG. Following up Houben's 
summary hint, I have examined c. 700 pages of indological articles and notices in 
those volumes, with the result that they contain virtually nothing that could be 
related to an ideology of the 'pure Aryan race' (for details see my article).
At closer inspection, even two oft-quoted conference abstracts by Erich Frauwallner 
(1938/1939; roughly 4 pages out of 700) do not fall into this category, although 
Frauwallner's concept of the history of Indian philosophy is based on race theory. I 
have treated that in my article, pointing out the features that distinguish 
Frauwallner's position from other views of that period. By contrast, I'm not aware 
that the writings Houben tries to impose on me as required reading treat this point in 
greater depth, and this alone would be enough to discard his demand as 
unreasonable.
But just the same, I'll take a brief look at his essay entitled "Why Did Rationality 
Thrive, But Hardly Survive ...?" (Asiatische Studien 53, 1999, pp. 491-512), where 
Houben shows that Frauwallner's 1953 concept of the development of Samkhya 
from "scientific, presuppositionless" (1999:493) to "a period in which rationality 
steadily decreased" (1999:498) is basically the same as his argumentation in his 
abstracts of 1938 and 1939, with the significant difference that "the ethnic part was 
amputated from an earlier explanatory model" (1999:507; cf. Thu, 4 Jan 2007 
00:36:07). However important this observation may be for the "discontinuity theme", 
it is of no immediate relevance to *THE QUESTION*. And as for Frauwallner's 
earlier views on race, Houben himself observes that "in pre-second world-war 
Europe, explanations for such large cultural phenomena commonly involved the 
notion of races and their inborn propensities and capacities" (1999:507). As shown 
in my article, Frauwallner's race theory, so far as it emerges from his two short 
conference abstracts published in the ZDMG in 1938 and 1939, as well as the full 
conference paper published in the Wiener Zeitschrift f?r die Kunde des 
Morgenlandes, remains within these "commonly" held views and show no special 
affinity with NS ideology - in fact, they were in conflict with those of Alfred 
Rosenberg, chief NS ideologue, and Walther W?st. That Frauwallner later revised 
them just the same is sufficiently explained by the fact that, after 1945, theories of 
race in general, and "the Aryan" in particular, had fallen into disrepute, irrespective 
of their possible affinity with the NS ideology.
[NOTE: Houben's himself points to his article in ?tudes de Lettres, 2001.3, as 
another example of his "grappling with this problem" of phenomena that remain 
"unexplained" because former explanations drawing on race theory have later been 
"amputated". As in the previous case, this relates to the "discontinuity theme", but 
not to *THE QUESTION*, and therefore this article can be left out of consideration 
here.]
Summing up, vols. 1938-1944 of the ZDMG yield no *EVIDENCE* that could in any 
way substantiate Houben's *STATEMENT* of a relation between German 
indologists and "the disastrous ideology of the 'pure Aryan race'", especially not in 
the sense implied by Pollock's "Deep Orientalism? ...", the primary point of 
reference in the pertinent part of Houben's report.
As for ZDMG 99 (1945-49), one may be tempted to think that Houben included this 
post-war volume in order to corroborate the "discontinuity theme" because the 
volume closes with the proceedings of the 1948 Mainz session of the DMG, 
convened to reorganize the Society and give it a new statute, according to which 
former NSDAP members are allowed to join only if they can produce a clearance 
certificate from the Allied authorities. But Houben mentions the Mainz session 
separately in the next paragraph of his report, without reference to vol 99. Therefore 
- if I'm allowed a bit of "unauthoritative" speculation - the inclusion of vol. 99 in the 
list of "essential reading" on the "sensitive topic" of "the disastrous ideology of the 
'pure Aryan race' may as well be intended to serve a different purpose, viz., to 
insinuate some kind of "continuity" beyond the end of the NS regime, because the 
proceedings of the Mainz session mention a number of indologists who also feature 
in Pollock's illusory "NS indology".
Meanwhile, Houben may have realized that his reference to the ZDMG was 
somewhat inappropriate. At least I observe a remarkable change of discourse 
strategy in his recent attempt (Fri, 12 Jan 2007 03:03:54) to minimize the wholesale 
implication of the ZDMG in his report to - (1.) "notices of W?st (...), references to his 
organizational DMG activities explicitly in connection with the then current political 
situation" and - (2.) "articles of Frauwallner" (Houben leaves it to his readers to find 
them for themselves) - which, as shown, do not fall into that category, and will not 
concern me here any further.
As for Houben's ominous "notices of W?st" (also no reference provided), there is 
only one that I know of, viz. in ZDMG 96 (1942), pp. *13*-*15*, reporting that W?st, 
in his capacity as "Beauftragter im Kriegseinsatz der Geisteswissenschaften" 
("commissary of the war effort of the arts/humanities") was authorized by the 
ministry of education to convene a conference of German orientalists (see the 
references to the 1942 proceedings, ed. by H.H. Schaeder, in my article). Things 
must be very desparate if one has to catch at this three-liner to support one's 
theorizing of ZDMG 92-99!
(For the only indological contribution to that volume, Frauwallner's "Die Bedeutung 
der indischen Philosophie" (1942:158-169), cf. my article).
Meanwhile, Houben concedes that these data may reduce the number of "at least 
some" to just two indologists, viz., Walther W?st and Erich Frauwallner, but he still 
seems to find the wholesale reference to ZDMG 92-99 fully justified, although the 
three items he actually draws on amount to no more than roughly 5 pages out of c. 
700 dealing with indological topics.
As indicated in my article, I see this gross exaggeration in the context of Pollock's 
impressive metaphor of a post-1933 "flood" of indological writings "that, without any 
overt commitment to National Socialism, fully embrace the terms of its discourse by 
their unchallenged participation in and acceptance of the Fragestellungen, the 
thematics, of NS Indology" (Pollock 1993:91). While Pollock is wise to avoid 
concrete references, his epigones sometimes show a tendency to expose 
themselves with all too courageous assertions.
In later stages of the present debate, Houben tried to build his stance on 
circumstantial evidence of sorts, arguing that "those who explicitly keep positive 
relations with the then German government are automatically keeping sufficiently 
positive relations with the government's ideology of the pure Aryan race" (Fri, 12 
Jan 2007 03:03:54) - an automatism that conveniently exempts his "authoritative" 
pronouncements from the usual procedure of verification.
Now, it is reasonable to assume such "positive relations (...) with the German 
government" in general for the six or so indologists Pollock lists as members of the 
NSDAP (Alsdorf, Breloer, Frauwallner, Hauer, R. Schmidt and W?st). However, 
Houben goes much further when he specifies these "positive relations" with regard 
to the "disastrous ideology of the 'pure Aryan race'". In my article I have tried to 
show that indications of the endorsement Houben presupposes here can only be 
found in the political speeches of Walther W?st. But whatever conclusions one 
draws from that, they cannot automatically be extended to other indologists, not 
even to those other members of the NSDAP, let alone to "German indology" as a 
whole.
Hypothetically assuming that the six or so NSDAP members endorsed the 
"disastrous ideology of the 'pure Aryan race'", at least tacitly (as long as there is no 
evidence of public endorsement, except in W?st's political speeches), what 
conclusion would that allow beyond their personal political convictions, especially 
with regard to indology? Is indology in any way determined by the political 
convictions of indologists?
Furthermore, I find it hard to imagine how anyone can recommend Pollock's "Deep 
Orientalism? ..." as "essential reading" without in some way approving the theory 
that Pollock's piece is all about, viz. that German indologists played an active role in 
the formation (or at least the dissemination) of that ideology with the 
"epistemological instruments of Indologie" (Pollock 1993:84) - which brings me back 
to the question of *EVIDENCE* ...
More on this elsewhere.
Reinhold Gr?nendahl
********************************************************************
Dr. Reinhold Gruenendahl
Niedersaechsische Staats- und Universitaetsbibliothek
Fachreferat sued- und suedostasiatische Philologien
(Dept. of Indology)
37070 Goettingen, Germany
Tel (+49) (0)5 51 / 39 52 83
Fax (+49) (0)5 51 / 39 23 61
gruenen at mail.sub.uni-goettingen.de
FACH-INFORMATIONEN INDOLOGIE, GOETTINGEN:
http://www.sub.uni-goettingen.de/ebene_1/fiindolo/fiindolo.htm
In English:
http://www.sub.uni-goettingen.de/ebene_1/fiindolo/fiindole.htm
GRETIL - Goettingen Register of Electronic Texts in Indian Languages
http://www.sub.uni-goettingen.de/ebene_1/fiindolo/gretil.htm
