German  Indologist Claims to have decoded Indus Scripts?
Desde: [mailto:ramayana at todito.com]
Enviado: Jueves 22 de Febrero de 2007 11:06 PM
Para: arganis at todito.com
Tema: German Indologist Claims to have decoded Indus Scripts
Desde: Dr. Rabinder K. Koul [mailto:arrk00 at ameritech.net]
Enviado: Martes 20 de Febrero de 2007 03:21 AM
Para: IAmUC at yahoogroups.com
Tema: [IAmUC] German Indologist Claims to have decoded Indus Scripts
German Indologist claims to have decoded Indus scripts
Panaji, Feb 07: Renowned German Indologist and scientist of religion,
Egbert Richter Ushanas today claimed that he has unravelled the
mystery of Indus Valley scripts by decoding major seals and tablets
found during various archaeological excavations.
"Already 1,000-odd seals are decoded and of them, 300-odd are printed
in monography -- the message of Indus seals and tablets," stated
Richter, who has also decoded tablets from Easter Island in Pacific
Ocean and disc of Phaistos on Island of Crete in Meditarrenean Sea.
"All the seals are based on Vedas -- Rig Veda and Atharva Veda,"
Richter told a news agency here.
He is here to attend the International Indology Conference, beginning
from February 7.
Richter, who began decoding the mysteries behind the seals way back
in 1988, feels that after decoding 1,000-odd seals, there is no need
to decode the rest.
"You need not eat all apples of world to understand the apple. Few
apples are enough," he quipped.
The path-breaking decoding by Richter is based on the Sumerian and
Brahmi script wherein he has detected the lost meaning of the seals
which can be traced to Vedic era.
A Vedic scholar himself, Richter during the course of unravelling the
Indus Valley mysteries, has translated all the important Vedic hymns
and is a Sanskrit exponent too.
Bureau Report
http://www.zeenews.com/znnew/articles.asp?aid=352560&sid=FTP
Messages
Disclaimer: Views and opinions expressed herein are solely those of the persons posting the mail and not of the IAmUC or its office bearers/managers/moderators.
The moderator / Manager of the IAmUC Egroup reserves the right either to edit or censor writeups/postings to conform to the objectives of the IAmUC. 
The IAmUC messages cannot be considered "SPAM" as long as the posting include to unsubscribe and contact information. 
To post a message send it to IAmUC at egroups.com 
Change settings via the Web (Yahoo! ID required) 
Change settings via email: Switch delivery to Daily Digest | Switch format to Traditional
Visit Your Group | Yahoo! Groups Terms of Use | Unsubscribe 
Visit Your Group 
SPONSORED LINKS
American united life insuranceAmerican united life insurance companyAmerican community mutual insurance companyAmerican united
Yahoo! Photos
Upload & Share
First 20
prints are free
Y! GeoCities
Share Photos
Put your favorite
photos online.
Yahoo! Groups
Start a group
in 3 easy steps.
Connect with others.
.
Vende y compra lo que quieras, lareventa.com
Sube tus fotos m?s divertidas a enbloga.com
