Indus signs discussion
Dear all,
Please forgive me for wading into this controversy.
I find the work of both Professor Witzel and Professor Parpola in this
field fascinating.
That said, without sounding trite, I think it would be good if a more
rigorous methodology for approaching this issue was adopted.
It seems to me that on the basis of the established materials that
Professor Parpola's primary hypothesis is that:
1) Certain Indus signs exhibit an underlying rebus principle. The
uncovering of the approximations of the sounds underlying these "rebus
signs" aids towards the interpretation of the sign seal sequences. The
fact that "rebus signs" exist shows that some sort of "writing system"
was intended here.
Professor Parpola's secondary hypothesis is that:
2) The underlying language "unlocking" the "rebus signs" is proto-Dravidian.
On the other hand, Professor Witzel et al do not seem to me to offer a
counter-hypothesis. Nor should they necessarily be expected to. Part
of the scientific process involves hypothesis generation and then
subsequent testing of both materials and methods.
Rather, they conclude on the basis of sign frequency calculations,
total sequence length and other statistical calculations that:
3) The Indus signs do not encode ideograms, grammar, speech or sounds.
Therefore they cannot be considered a writing system.
On this basis, I guess I have four questions then:
4) Is this very brief characterisation of both Professors arguments
and methods accurate?
5) Is it methodologically appropriate or rigorous enough to rebut the
"rebus" hypothesis on statistical or sign sequence length grounds?  If
so, can other cases be cited?
6) Even if the Indus signs do not encode a form of proto-Dravidian
(ie. the secondary hypothesis), does this weaken the "rebus"
hypothesis (ie. the primary hypothesis)?
7) When will the third volume of seal images appear and are there any
new finds therein that may affect either hypothesis?
I do believe that this is a very important field of research but it
makes no point even discussing the matter unless both sides are
represented accurately and an attempt is made to engage with the
issues in a relatively open and informed forum.
Kind regards,
Antonio Ferreira-Jardim
University of Queensland
On 2/14/07, Harry Falk <falk at zedat.fu-berlin.de> wrote:
