SARDS 2 (Postscript)
Dear Colleagues,
the number of SARDS related inquiries directed to me off-list, all of
them basically focusing on the four points to follow, suggests
answering them economically by means of one public postscript: 
1) ?Add? is a tool accessible to every scholar for ensuring the
correctness and completeness of their individual entries. It is
chiefly intended for authors, who would like to correct their current
entries or to make additions towards the completion of their
bibliography.
2) Yes, a retrospective completion of the data pool is indeed planned,
in cooperation with the Indological Institutes of Bonn (Klaus) and
Munich (Hartmann). According to projections made, the number of
Indological citations not yet recorded amounts to about 30,000. The
overall number of articles published between 1786 und 2000 in this
field totals almost 100,000, about two thirds of which have become
searchable now in SARDS 2.
3) No, SARDS does not and will not record book reviews (except for
review articles).
4) Yes, the ?Gravedigger Nominee? signature (now removed) of my
earlier announcement was, to be sure, absolutely meant *ironically*.
Those wishing to know more about its amusing background or to enter
into competition for this honorary title award may inform themselves
about terms, conditions and previous award-winners by writing to
pthomi at INDOLOGIEWICHTRACH.CH.
This is clearly an ?off-list? issue, not to be publicly discussed. 
Walter Slaje
Prof Dr Walter Slaje
Hermann-Loens-Str. 1
D-99425 Weimar (Germany)
Tel/Fax: +49-(0)3643 501391
www.indologie.uni-halle.de
South Asia Research Documentation Services (SARDS)2
http://www.indologie.uni-halle.de/Sards2/
Ego ex animi mei sententia spondeo ac polliceor
me studia humanitatis impigro labore culturum et provecturum
non sordidi lucri causa nec ad vanam captandam gloriam,
sed quo magis veritas propagetur et lux eius, qua salus
humani generis continetur, clarius effulgeat.
Vindobonae, die XXI. mensis Novembris MCMLXXXIII.
