[Indo-Eurasia] **The Farmer-Sproat-Witzel Model
Dear Michael, Lars Martin, and Reinhold,
I too am busy.  My publisher wants a manuscript in a few days.  So I 
will be brief.  It is de facto Steve's list.  He conceived of it.  He 
himself set it up on Yahoo.  And he runs it. Michael and Lars Martin 
simply legitimize it, occasionally helping out with the moderating 
duties, as I once did.  I think that it is legitimate to discuss the 
ethics of email-list moderation on an email list.
Reinhold, I think that you have misread the post that was sent to that 
list.  It was sent by a third party, giving notice of Mahadevan's 
article in the Hindu. Farmer took it over for his own purposes, as is 
his wont. 
Michael, you may wish to dismiss this as a personal matter, but, as a 
friend of Mahadevan, perhaps you should address the discussion of the 
treatment of Mahadevan here, instead of "leaving it apart."  Wasn't the 
treatment of him not a little abusive?  Mahadevan is an eminent 
Indologist.  This is an Indology list.  I think that it is legitimate to 
address the abuse of this Indologist on this list.
If the IER list, as you prefer to call it, is based on a publication 
model, why do you let so many uninformed Hindutva types on that list?  
Do you really consider discussions like the recent one on flying 
machines in Vedic worthy of publication?  Or is this just a kind of 
sport that you and Steve enjoy: skewering the crazies, like 
Kalyanaraman, et al?.  For someone who has many other, more pressing 
tasks to deal with, you do seem to spend a lot of time in this sort of 
sport.
Finally, list members, please note that I sent my initial post on this 
matter to three email lists that I felt would be appropriate places to 
discuss these matters.  My post was received by two of them.  The third 
list -- and its moderators -- have ignored it. 
This simply confirms my point that the so-called IER list is in fact 
*not* an open list, and that it would be foolish for someone like 
Mahadevan or Asko Parpola, or anyone else who disagrees with the Farmer 
Sproat Witzel thesis, or who disagrees about anything with one Steve 
Farmer, to enter into that obvious trap.
Dear Prof.  Mahadevan: this invitation is an obvious trap.  Please, 
don't step into it! 
Perhaps someone should pass the warning on to him, in the interest of 
Indology.
Best wishes,
George Thompson
Michael Witzel wrote:
