Indus signs discussion
Dear Michael,
I hope that you know that my quarrel is not with you.  It is with 
Farmer.  But  I object to what you say here:
 " (So far we have only got personalia. (*)  Enough of that!) "
I just received a post from the IER list, from Farmer, which says this:
"It's clear now from remarks that Asko Parpola has made on the closed
Liverpool Indology List that we're apparently *not* going to get any
meaningful expert discussion of the so-called Indus script issue.
It really isn't any fun to debate an "empty chair," so maybe we should
let this thread be stillborn (or near stillborn: see the final
lines of this post).
I'm just going to ignore the personal remarks that Parpola makes
against me on that List, to which I cannot in any event easily respond.
It takes a formal application and committee action to join that List,
which makes a timely response impossible."
..................
Michael,
Please feel free to dismiss my criticisms of Farmer as 'personalia,' if 
you wish.  But please take a look at what you and Farmer are doing 
here.  How much of this 'personalia' is coming from Asko Parpola?  As 
far as I can see, Asko has been remarkably restrained, and his 
explanation of his posts to the list, and his references to the Lawler 
article in Science in his paper, are always very  restrained, and, as he 
has shown, there is actually very little personalia in them.
Yet here we have your implication that Asko's response is little more 
than 'personalia', and that implication is now follwed by Farmer's bald 
little more than "the personal remarks that Parpola makes against me."  
What personal remarks?  The insinuation that Asko has responded to your 
invitation to debate with nothing but "persoanl remarks" against Farmer 
is utterly fraudulant!
Asko is dismissed in this venal post as "an empty chair," and Farmer 
claims to take the high road by pretending to ignore "the personal 
remarks that Parpola makes against me on that List."   Of course, while 
pretending to ignore them, he subtly highlights them for his own 
benefit.  It is ever Farmer the victim over there..
Dear List,
Who can blame Asko Parpola or Iravatham Mahadevan or Harry Falk or Frank 
Conlon for not wanting to witness this "High Noon" scenario that Michael 
Witzel assures us is not in playin this debate?
This sort of casuistry is exactly what I have been talking about.  And 
the majority of the list members of that IER list have no idea what is 
going on here.  But perhaps the members of this list now do.
best wishes,
George Thompson
Michael Witzel wrote:
