Lectureship in Hindu Religions at Univ. of Tennessee, Knoxville
The Department of Religious Studies of the University of Tennessee is
seeking a Lecturer in Hindu Religions for the year 2007-08. Duties include
upper division courses in Hindu religions, work with MA students in Hindu
religions (primarily an advanced Sanskrit reading course each semester), and
lectures for the Asian half of a freshman "World Religions" course. ABD
applicants are welcome. Salary competitive. Applicants should send a letter
of application, a CV, and current contact information for three referees to:
James L. Fitzgerald, Dept. of Religious Studies, 501 McClung Tower,
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN, 37996-0450. Electronic submissions
will be accepted at  <mailto:jlfitzgerald at comcast.net>
jlfitzgerald at comcast.net (use subject line: Hindu Religions Lectureship).
Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until the
position is filled.
The University of Tennessee does not discriminate on the basis of race, sex,
color, religion, national origin, age, disability or veteran status in
provision of educational programs and services or employment opportunities
and benefits. This policy extends to both employment by and admission to the
University. The University does not discriminate on the basis of race, sex,
or disability in its education programs and activities pursuant to the
requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the
Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973,and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990. Inquiries and
charges of violation concerning Title VI, Title IX, Section 504, ADA or the
Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) or any of the other above
referenced policies should be directed to the Office of Equityand Diversity
(OED), 1840 Melrose Avenue, Knoxville, TN 37996-3560, telephone (865)
974-2498 (V/TTY available) or 974-2440. Requests for accommodation of a
disability should be directed to the ADA Coordinator at the UTK Office of
Human Resources, 600 Henley Street, Knoxville, TN 37996-4125.
In addition, the following is a statement of campus policy for The
University of Tennessee, Knoxville:
The University of Tennessee, Knoxville, in its efforts to ensure a welcoming
environment for all persons, does not discriminate on the basis of sexual
orientation in its campus-based programs, services, and activities.
Inquiries and complaints should be directed to the Office of Equity and
Diversity.
