From jkirk at SPRO.NET  Mon Jul 23 19:30:11 2007
From: jkirk at SPRO.NET (jkirk)
Date: Mon, 23 Jul 07 13:30:11 -0600
Subject: USPS gets rid of low-cost surface mail outside USA--the petition              destination
Message-ID: <161227080891.23782.14327073610864479901.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

 

I began to wonder, after posting about the surface mail restoration
petition, what is its intended destination. Having written to the email
supplied, I learned about that today, as follows:
-------------

"The petition has been hand-carried to meetings with Congressional staffers,
and also sent to members of Congress. A few key members of the Postal
Service are looking at the petition periodically, just to keep up to date,
but the USPS?s hands are tied by Congress, so our focus is on the key
Congressional subcommittees.

The petition is now getting big enough, that most people are just referring
to the URL, when writing letters to Congress. We recommend people write
their Senators and Congressperson, and also write to some of the key
Congressmen/Senators as noted below. If you would like to write letters to
Congress, you can note the petition URL, and also speak to how this decision
is impacting you and your project. 

The key Congressional subcommittees are:

1.)Federal Workforce, Postal Service and the District of Columbia
Subcommittee. This subcommittee is chaired by Danny Davis, Congressman from
one of the Chicago districts. This subcommittee is part of the Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform chaired by Henry Waxman.

2.)Subcommittee on Federal Financial Management, Government Information,
Federal Services and International Security. This subcommittee is chaired by
Senator Thomas Carper of Delaware. This subcommittee is part of the Senate
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs chaired by Joe
Lieberman, with the ranking member being Susan Collins. 

Michael Quint of Books for Israel and Jonathan Pearson of National Peace
Corps Assn. have had some meetings with staffers of these subcommittees, and
are waiting for official responses."

-------------------

Have to add that I was very pleased that the concerned activists are doing
something practical with this petition, rather than just sending it
somewhere either by post or email, which tends to be the usual ineffective
route and therefore the reason that I don't normally sign petitions.
Representatives of these concerned groups seeking a restoration of surface
mail, who brought this to our attention, are actually walking the walk!

May they prosper.

Joanna Kirkpatrick
Bennington college, ret. 


No virus found in this outgoing message.
Checked by AVG Free Edition. 
Version: 7.5.476 / Virus Database: 269.10.14/912 - Release Date: 7/22/2007
7:02 PM
 




