Announcement of Urdu position at the University of Oslo
Associate Professor (SKO 1011) in Urdu / South Asia area studies at the
Department of Culture Studies and Oriental Languages, the Faculty of
Humanities.
A position as Associate Professor in Urdu / South Asia area studies  at the
Department of Culture Studies and Oriental Languages is now available.
Please see the web site  <http://www.hf.uio.no/ikos/english/>
http://www.hf.uio.no/ikos/english/ for information about research and
teaching at the department.
As a member of the section for South Asia Studies in the multidisciplinary
Department for Cultural Studies and Oriental Languages 
(IKOS), the holder of this position will be expected to teach Urdu (the
beginners' course is taught every second year) and South Asia 
area studies courses. Courses are taught at BA and MA levels, and the
successful candidate is also expected to supervise research 
students. The successful candidate must demonstrate a high level of
proficiency in Urdu. 
 He or she should also demonstrate superior research competence utilising
Urdu as a vehicle to issues relevant to contemporary
South Asia. The Faculty of Humanities wishes to invite candidates from a
broad range of research profiles. Candidates can come 
from disciplines such as anthropology, history, history of religions, human
geography, literature, political science or sociology. 
The appointee is expected to take active part in research activities at the
University. The area studies courses will to some extent 
reflect the research interests of the successful candidate.
The Department of Culture Studies and Oriental Languages aims at a strong
research profile and also at research driven teaching 
and supervision. Applicants are requested to formulate their research
interests and to sketch out a project or projects with possible 
topics for master theses. 
The appointee should lead and initiate research, and will be required to
teach, supervise and participate in exams at all levels, and carry out
administrative duties in accordance with the needs of the Department. Within
his/her normal working duties and academic competence, the appointee may
also be obliged to undertake duties outside the Department. The appointment
is subject to any changes in working area or job description decided by the
Faculty of Humanities.
The minimum research qualification required for appointment to a permanent
academic post is a doctoral degree or equivalent qualifications. If no
applicant presents the necessary qualifications, a temporary appointment for
a maximum of 3 years might be offered, provided that the applicant may
qualify within the time allowed as stated in section 5(1) of the Regulations
issued pursuant to the Civil Service Act. 
When applicants are assessed, in accordance with current regulations the
main emphasis will be placed on the academic works submitted. Account will
also be taken of research management and participation in research projects
if sufficient documentary evidence of this activity is provided. In addition
weight will be placed on pedagogical qualifications, publicizing work and
ability to cooperate and engage in the working environment of the
department. Museum experience might be regarded as an extra merit.
Documentary evidence of pedagogical competence must be provided. Applicants
who cannot produce documentary evidence of basic pedagogical competence may
nevertheless be appointed, provided they acquire this competence within a
period of two years after having been appointed.
Courses are mainly taught in Norwegian. Non-native speakers will be expected
to teach in Norwegian within a certain time after being appointed.  (This
time will be determined by the Faculty after the appointment has been made).
As a general rule an interview and a trial lecture will be used in the
appointment process. References will also be contacted. 
The University of Oslo has a goal of recruiting more women in academic
positions. 
Women are encouraged to apply.The University of Oslo also has a goal of
recruiting more immigrants to Norway in academic positions. Immigrants are
encouraged to apply
Applicants must submit 3 (paper) copies of not more than 10 publications
which they wish the committee to assess, and mention the
academic/professional works or parts of works that he or she wishes to have
ascribed particular weight when the assessment is being conducted. (The
Ph.d. dissertation should normally be submitted if it is within a relevant
field.)
Please refer to "
<http://www.uio.no/admhb/reglhb/personal/tilsettingvitenskapelig/appointasso
c.html> Rules for Appointments to Professorships and Associate
professorships" and "
<http://www.uio.no/admhb/reglhb/personal/tilsettingvitenskapelig/assessweigh
t.html> Rules for the assessment and weighting of pedagogical competence for
appointments to permanent academic posts which include teaching duties":
<http://www.hf.uio.no/personal/1011.html>
http://www.hf.uio.no/personal/1011.html
The University of Oslo has an agreement for all employees, aiming to secure
rights to research results a.o.
For further information, contact:  Head of Department, Professor Arne Bugge
Amundsen, 
e-mail:  <mailto:a.b.amundsen at ikos.uio.no> a.b.amundsen at ikos.uio.no, tel.:
+47 22 85 61 61, 
or Administrative Head of Department Ragnhild Rebne, 
e-mail:  <mailto:ragnhild.rebne at ikos.uio.no> ragnhild.rebne at ikos.uio.no ,
Tel.: +47 22 85 59 26.
Pay grade:  57-63 (dependent on seniority and qualifications)        
Closing date: September 20th 2007
REF. NO.: 07/8329
3 sets of the application including 2 references, curriculum vitae,
certified certificates / testimonials  and academic publications (a maximum
of 10) must be sent before the deadline to: The Faculty of Humanities,
P.O.Box 1079 Blindern, N-0316 Oslo, Norway. 
From:
Dr.art. Lars Martin Fosse
Haugerudvn. 76, Leil. 114,
0674 Oslo - Norway
Phone: +47 22 32 12 19 Fax:  +47 850 21 250
Mobile phone: +47 90 91 91 45
E-mail:  <mailto:lmfosse at chello.no> lmfosse at chello.no
http://www.linguistfinder.com/translators.asp?id=2164 
