Dear All,
Please see the following announcement of a position in Hindi-Urdu at  
the University of Toronto, circulated on behalf of a non-list member.
Best regards,
Andrea
Andrea Marion Pinkney
Department of Religion
Columbia University
The University of Toronto invites applications for a lectureship in  
Hindi and Urdu Languages to be jointly held in New College (St. George  
Campus) and the University of Toronto Mississauga. Appointment will  
begin July 1, 2008.
Applicants must have a relevant PhD degree and demonstrated excellence  
in language teaching. The successful candidate will be responsible for  
instruction in Hindi and Urdu languages and the development of the  
curriculum in consultation with South Asian Studies and University of  
Toronto Mississauga faculty. Experience with the application of digital  
technologies to language learning is an asset. ?
This position is renewable annually for three years. Salary will be  
commensurate with qualifications and experience.? Applications must be  
received by November 15, 2007.
Applications should include a cover letter, a curriculum vitae and a  
teaching portfolio. In addition, arrangements should be made for the  
submission of three letters of reference. Applications may be emailed  
or mailed to Professor Rick Halpern, Principal, New College, University  
of Toronto, 300 Huron Street, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3J6, CANADA.  
<nc.principal at utoronto.ca>
  ?
The University of Toronto is strongly committed to diversity within its  
community and especially welcomes applications from visible minority  
group members, women, Aboriginal persons, persons with disabilities,  
members of sexual minority groups, and others who may contribute to the  
further diversification of ideas. We offer opportunities to work in  
many collaborative programs, including African Studies, Caribbean  
Studies, and Women and Gender Studies. The University of Toronto offers  
the opportunity to teach and live in one of the most cosmopolitan  
cities in the world.
All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians  
and permanent residents will be given priority.
