Lecturer in Sanskrit, University of Toronto
Lecturer in Sanskrit
The University of Toronto invites applications for a lectureship in  
Sanskrit to be jointly held in New College (St. George Campus) and  
the University of Toronto Mississauga. Appointment will begin July 1,  
2008.
Qualifications for this position include a Ph.D. or ABD status and  
demonstrated excellence in language teaching.  The successful  
candidate will be responsible for instruction in Sanskrit and the  
development of the curriculum in consultation with South Asian and  
relevant University of Toronto Mississauga faculty.  Experience with  
the application of digital technologies to language learning is an  
asset.
This position is renewable annually for three years. Salary will be  
commensurate with qualifications and experience.  Applications must  
be received by November 15, 2007.
Applications should include a cover letter, a curriculum vitae and a  
teaching portfolio. In addition, arrangements should be made for the  
submission of three letters of reference. Applications may be emailed  
or mailed to Professor Michael Lettieri, Chair, Sanskrit Search  
Committee, North Building, Room 235, University of Toronto  
Mississauga, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada L5L 1C6  
(fgichair at utm.utoronto.ca).
The University of Toronto is strongly committed to diversity within  
its community and especially welcomes applications from visible  
minority group members, women, Aboriginal persons, persons with  
disabilities, members of sexual minority groups, and others who may  
contribute to the further diversification of ideas. The University of  
Toronto offers the opportunity to teach and live in one of the most  
cosmopolitan cities in the world.
All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians  
and permanent residents will be given priority.
Professor Stella Sandahl
Department of East Asian Studies
130 St. George St. room 14087
Toronto, ON M5S 3H1
stella.sandahl at utoronto.ca
Fax. (416) 978-5711
