Hindi Position at NCSU
Dear Colleagues:
Please see the following ad for a tenure-track position in Hindi at  
NCSU.  Apologies for any cross-listings.
cheers, tony
Tony K. Stewart
Professor of South Asian Religions & Literatures
North Carolina State University
ph. 919.515.6335
email:  tony_stewart at ncsu.edu
Assistant Professor in Hindu/Urdu
Department of Foreign Languages & Literatures
North Carolina State University
Position Vacancy Number: 06-43-0711
For Use in Online Recruitment System, Journals and Listservs
The Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures at NC State  
University invites applications for a tenure-track assistant  
professorship in Hindi/Urdu, beginning August 16, 2008.  Applicants  
should have native or near-native fluency in Hindi /Urdu, a PhD  
focusing on literature/cultural studies completed at the time of  
appointment; and proof of excellence in teaching at the undergraduate  
level. Candidates with cross-disciplinary interests are particularly  
encouraged to apply. Applicants should be prepared to teach courses  
in Hindi-Urdu at the intermediate and advanced levels and literature/ 
culture classes in translation in the World Literature curriculum.   
NCSU is a founding member of the North Carolina Center for South Asia  
Studies (NCSU, Duke, UNC-CH), a Title VI National Resource Center for  
the study of South Asia; the Center is a cooperative which integrates  
faculty, curricula, and programming at all levels across the  
campuses.  Applications will be reviewed starting Nov. 10, 2007 with  
possible preliminary interviews at the Modern Language Association  
Convention in Chicago.
NC State University is a comprehensive land-grant Doctoral/Research- 
Extensive institution. The Department of Foreign Languages and  
Literatures offers majors in French and Spanish, with a Teacher  
Education option, and in German Studies, as well as minors in Chinese  
Studies, Classical Greek, Classical Studies, French, German, Hindi- 
Urdu, Italian Studies, Japanese, Russian Studies, Spanish, and World  
Literature.
To learn more about the university, visit our webpage at http:// 
www.ncsu.edu/; to learn more about the department, visit us as http:// 
sasw.chass.ncsu.edu/fl/.
For instructions on how to apply, please visit https://jobs.ncsu.edu  
or to go directly to this position posting please visit:   
jobs.ncsu.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=77769.
Applicants should attach a cover letter with a statement of teaching  
methods, curriculum vita, and arrange to have three confidential  
letters of reference sent to Dr. H?ctor Jaimes, Hindi/Urdu Search  
Committee, FLL Box 8106, North Carolina State University, Raleigh,  
27695-8106.
AA/EOE.  In addition, NC State welcomes all persons without regard to  
sexual orientation.
