ANU South Asia Studies Summer School
The ANU South Asia Studies Summer School (SASSS) is a week-long program 
of intensive research activities designed to bring together PhD and 
masters students working on South Asia through out Australia, New 
Zealand and Asia to exchange knowledge and experience at one of the 
leading centres on South Asia.
*The broad goals of the program are* to provide a forum for research 
students to discuss their research with intellectual inputs from 
experienced researchers, to expose students to the work being done at 
the frontiers of South Asian studies by ANU faculty and invited guest 
faculty, and to provide for networking through the exchange of knowledge 
and experiences surrounding the study of South Asia. The program will 
also provide the students with opportunity to make use of the rich and 
diverse resources on South Asia held at ANU libraries and the National 
Library of Australia. In addition, students will have the opportunity to 
participate in a range of social and cultural activities to be held as 
part of the Asia-Pacific Week.
*Your academic hosts and mentors will include*
Professor Robin Jeffrey, Professor Prema-chandra Athukorala, Dr Richard 
Barz, Dr Assa Doron, Dr Debjani Ganguli, Dr Chris Gregory, Professor 
Raghbendra Jha, Dr Kuntala Lahiri-Dutt, Dr Barbara Nelson, Dr McComas 
Taylor, and Dr John Powers.
*You will have opportunity to: *
    * Forge links and exchange ideas with researchers in universities
      around Australia, New Zealand and Asia and the Pacific
    * Establish links with ANU scholars as informal on-going mentors
    * Receive feed back on research in progress
    * Gains skills for publication of research results
    * Strengthen insights into challenges facing South Asian Studies
    * Make use of the resources of the ANU libraries and the National
      Library of Australia
    Program
    * Interactive seminars by senior researchers
    * Round table discussions on selected issues
    * PhD/Masters project workshops (presentations based on work in
      progress, followed by comments by an invited seniors researcher
      and group discussion)
    * Individual consultations: opportunities will be made available for
      students to consult with individual ANU staff and invited
      researchers on their research projects.
    ANU Asia Pacific Week
The 2008 SASSS is to be held in conjunction with summer schools in China 
Studies, Thai Studies, Indonesian Studies, Vietnam Studies, Pacific 
Island Studies, Asia-Pacific Cultural Heritage Studies and Japan 
Studies. The Asia-Pacific week will feature special events such as 
keynote speeches, films, performances and exhibitions. Participants at 
the SASSS will interact with participants from other summer schools in 
combined social functions.
      Abstract of your paper for SASSS
    * Submit an abstract of your paper that will be presented at the
      SASSS, as either an attachment to, or main text of, your email to
      the SASSS convener.
    * It should be no more than 250 words long (A4 size), and begin with
      a title (top 1st line of the abstract), your name (2nd line),
      affiliation (3rd line) and email address (4th line), followed by a
      summary of your paper.
    Scholarships
A number of scholarships will be provided to cover (part or all of) the 
cost of accommodation, meals and travel. Please refer to the program 
application form for scholarship application.
    Application
Individuals who wish to participate in the SASSS need to express their 
interest by submitting an application form (other than a letter noted in 
A-P Week homepage), along with an abstract of their presentation at the 
SASSS, to the program convener.
    * There is no registration fee.
    * See below for the application form (Download) and contact details
      of the convener.
    * Closing date: 02 October 2007
    * Applicants will be advised of a result of their application by 31
      October 2008. Application form
    * SASSS Application Form: Download [RTF
      <http://rspas.anu.edu.au/asiapacificweek/SouthAsia_application.rtf>]
      OR [PDF
      <http://rspas.anu.edu.au/asiapacificweek/SouthAsia_application.pdf>]
    Contact
For further information contact the convener:
Dr Assa Doron
Research Fellow,
Department of Anthropology
Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies
The Australian National University
Canberra ACT 0200 Australia
ph: 61-2-6125-3870
fax: 61-2-6125-3023
email: Assa.Doron at anu.edu.au <mailto:Assa.Doron at anu.edu.au>
