journal rankings
I'm sure I'm not alone in watching with anxiety the growth of importance 
in science publishing of journal ranking and "impact factors" such as 
citation counts.  At the same time, many of us feel relief that these 
mechanisms have not yet had any major effect on our field.
One can understand why bureaucrats are interested in these features, and 
to some extent we are all affected.  Some journals do appear to have more 
circulation and impact than others.  It's an easy argument to win that 
circulation = importance.  But the counter-argument is that this leads to 
the famous Wildean definition of a cynic, as the man who "knows the price 
of everything and the value of nothing".  After all, the biggest 
circulation publication in Britain (BY FAR) is the racist, pornographic, 
sexist, sensationalist Sun ("FREDDIE STARR ATE MY HAMSTER"): but would we 
want that measure to be used in assessing the work of universities?
Lars has also quite rightly stated some of the dangers and deleterious 
side-effects of this type of metrication.  The under-valuing of 
third-world journal publications is a chronic and reasonably 
widely-recognised problem.
All this is yet another example of the reach of the audit culture over 
academic matters.  And this in itself is a sign that finance and 
decision-making are now almost completely controlled by a separate cadre 
of people who are not deeply educated in the matters that they administer. 
Lacking the training to come to informed decisions about scholarly 
matters, they do require some criteria by which to get a grasp on what 
they control, and hence the rise of the audit culture.
For those who may not know it already, there was a fine analysis of some 
of these issues by a couple of anthropologists published in 1999:
Audit Culture and Anthropology: Neo-Liberalism in British Higher Education
Cris Shore; Susan Wright
The Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, Vol. 5, No. 4.
   Dec., 1999), pp. 557-575.
Stable URL: http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=1359-0987%28199912%295%3A4%3C557%3AACAANI%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Q
This article stirred up controversy, and discussion continued in the pages 
of the JRAI in later issues.  I recommend it strongly if you haven't read 
it already.
Dr Dominik Wujastyk
Senior Research Fellow
University College London
http://www.ucl.ac.uk/histmed
On Tue, 25 Sep 2007, Lars Martin Fosse wrote:
