From ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK  Thu Nov  1 18:10:44 2007
From: ucgadkw at UCL.AC.UK (Dominik Wujastyk)
Date: Thu, 01 Nov 07 18:10:44 +0000
Subject: M.A. Health and Society in South Asia - Heidelberg (fwd)
Message-ID: <161227081464.23782.15252866192657048973.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Justus Weiss <j.weiss at AF-I.DE>
To: INDOLOGYCOMMITTEE at liverpool.ac.uk
Date: Thu, 1 Nov 2007 13:54:27 +0100
Subject: M.A. Health and Society in South Asia - Heidelberg

[...]

NEW MA Health and Society in South Asia*

Starting for the first time in April 2008, the proposed Masters Degree 
Health and Society in South Asia is an English-medium, two-year, taught 
interdisciplinary degree with a focus on Medical Anthropology and South 
Asian Studies. We give particular attention to the importance of cultural 
and historical factors in the areas of health, wellbeing, and illness.

Our current research focus is on indigenous medical systems of South Asia 
(e.g. Ayurveda, Tibetan Medicine, and Folk Medicine), ritual healing, 
health and environment, health and ethics, pharmaceuticals and culture, 
and public health.

Who is the course aimed at?

- Professionals already working, or wishing to work, in
health-related fields in South Asia
- Students wishing to pursue an academic career in anthropology or
one of the neighbouring social sciences

Why Heidelberg?

The South Asia Institute in Heidelberg is Europe's leading centre for
teaching and research in and about South Asia. We offer an
interdisciplinary atmosphere, the chance to learn various languages,
and many exchange opportunities to and within South Asia. The South
Asia Institute has
- eight departments (Anthropology, Development Economics,
Geography, History of South Asia, International Economics, Modern
South Asian Languages, Political Science, Classical Indology)
- regional branch offices in Delhi, Colombo, and Kathmandu
- a library focused on South Asia, which constitutes one of the
largest collection of South Asia literature in the world, with more
than 260 000 books, numerous journals, and an extensive collection of
media and DVDs

Cooperation with the Department of Public Health and the Institute of
Ethnology allows students to benefit from the expertise and the
resources to be found there.

Structure and schedule of the Master programme:

The Master programme consists of the following core modules:
- Introduction to Medical Anthropology
- Healing in South Asia
- Health and Environment in South Asia
- Methods in Medical Anthropology

Students can further choose between a variety of optional courses
focusing on South Asia and Medical Anthropology. We put great emphasis
on teaching students presentation skills, and offer an optional module
in Academic English. We encourage students to base their Master's
Thesis on a short field work in South Asia.

The first semester gives an introduction to the field of medical
anthropology generally, and to the medical anthropology of South Asia
specifically. All students take two core introductory modules: in
medical anthropology and in systems of healing in South Asia. In
addition, they must choose two of several thematic and regional
modules that reflect on the one hand the thematic interest in medical
Anthropology and on the other hand the regional focus on South Asia.
Thematic and regional modules may vary from year to year. Proposed
courses include:

- Medical History of South Asia
- South Asian Indigenous Knowledge Systems
- Medical Anthropology of South Asia
- Health Policy in South Asia
- Health and Ethnicity
- HIV/Aids - a challenge for Medical Anthropology

The second semester focuses on anthropological research methods, and
on the relationship between health and environment. Students also
begin to study a South Asian language, and choose another regional or
thematic module.

The third semester focuses on the design and realisation of a relevant
research project. All students take a core module on Master thesis
preparation, during which they choose a relevant topic for
anthropological inquiry, do an intensive literature research on their
proposed topic, and design a proposal and work-plan for its
realisation. They continue to study the South Asian language, and
choose another regional or thematic module.

The summer vacations and the fourth semester are used for fieldwork or
work placement and writing a dissertation (15000 words).
During the first three semesters students can optionally take a module
in either academic English, or other courses that teach presentation
skills.

Fees:

The regular fees for students at the University of Heidelberg are 593,60

- What do you need to know and how can you apply?

Applications should be in by January 30th 2008.

Successful applicants should hold a Bachelor degree in a
health-oriented discipline or in a discipline from the fields of
social sciences, cultural or regional studies. Candidates not fully
meeting these criteria may nevertheless be considered. Students whose
first language is not English must have IELTS of at least 6.5 or TOEFL
or equivalent.
We encourage South Asian students to apply.

If you are interested, or want to know more about eligibility or
course details, please contact:

Master of Health and Society in South Asia
Dr. Gabriele Alex
Assistant Professor and Course director
South Asia Institute
Im Neuenheimer Feld 330
D-69120 Heidelberg
Tel.: +49 (0)6221-54-8798
E-Mail: mahassa at urz.uni-heidelberg.de

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Diese Email wurde mit sauberem Strom von Greenpeace energy eG verschickt.
Machen Sie mit bei unserer Kampagne "Atomstromfreies Internet" und
besuchen Sie unser Portal http://www.atomstromfreies-internet.de
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -




