asva sastra
The only copy I can find is in the British Library, the correct title
being not *Science of the horse but *Science of horses:
Asva-Sastra; or, the Science of Horses ... Translated from the original
Sanskrit text by Pandit. V. Vijayaraghavacharya ... Edited with 153
illustrations of horses of all kinds and published by V. J. A. and V.
Krishnasamy..pp. 7. 3. 12. 315. P. N. Press: Tirupati, 1928..  4?.. 
Description  Collection;Shelfmk   Oriental Collections ; 14053.e.33.
According to the pages of the BL's Asia, Pacific and Africa
Collections, <  http://www.bl.uk/collections/sanskrit.html >, the
contact person for Sanskrit is Michael O'Keefe and his email <
michael.o'keefe at bl.uk >. 
I also add a list of Asvasastras off the subscription version of the
OCLC/WorldCat database.  One can go to the no-charge, universally
acceptable vanilla version at < http://www.worldcat.org/ > and find out
what libraries own copies of the books.
Database: WorldCat
Query: (kw: asvasastra or kw: ashvashastra) or kw: ashwashastra
1 Asvayurveda :
             Siddhasangrahah /
             Author:      Gana.; Paudyal, Damaru Ballabh.;
             Nakula.Publication: [Kathamadaum] : Sri 5
Maharajadhirajaka Pramukha
             Rajadaravara Padadhikari Karyalaya, 1975-1976? Document:  
 Sanskrit :
             Book   Libraries Worldwide: 14
2 Asvasastram /
             Author:      Nakula.; Gopalan, S.Publication: [Madras :
             Government Oriental Manuscripts Library, 1952 Document:   
Sanskrit :
             Book   Libraries Worldwide: 9   Library of Congress
3 Asvasastram /
             Author:      Nakula.; Gopalan, S.Publication: Tanjore :
             The Tanjore Maharaja Serfoji's Saraswati Mahal Library,
1952 Document: 
             Sanskrit : Book   Libraries Worldwide: 5
4 Abhinavacandra viracita Asvasastra /
             Author:      Abhinavacandra, 15th cent.; Ma?junathan, Ji.
             Ji.,Publication: Mysore : Kannada Adhyayana Samsthe,
Maisuru
             Visvavidyanilaya, 1987 Document:    Kannada : Book  
Libraries
             Worldwide: 5   Library of Congress
5 Asvavaidyakam
             a treatise on the diseases of the horse /
             Author:      Jayadatta Suri.; Candragupta, Umesa.;
             Nakula.Publication: Calcutta : J.W. Thomas for the Asiatic
Society of
             Bengal, Baptist Mission Press, 1886 Document:    Sanskrit
: Book  
             Libraries Worldwide: 2
6 Asvasastram
             critically edited with introduction and notes /
             Author:      Abhinavacandra, 15th cent.; Srinivasa Rao,
             P.,; Sesha Iyengar, H.Publication: Madras : Govt. Oriental
Manuscripts
             Library, 1950 Document:    Kannada : Book  :  Microform   
Libraries
             Worldwide: 2   Library of Congress
7 Asvavaidyakam /
             Author:      Jayadatta Suri.; Nakula.Publication:
             Kalikatanagayyarm : Sidgasavarayantra Mudrita, 1893
Document:   
             Sanskrit : Book   Libraries Worldwide: 1
8 Asvasastram :
             critically edited with introduction and notes /
             Author:      Abhinavacandra, 15th cent.; Srinivasa Rao,
             P.,; Sesha Iyengar, H.Publication: Madras : Govt. Oriental
Manuscripts
             Library, 1950 Document:    Kannada : Book
FirstSearch(r) Copyright (c) 1992-2007 OCLC as to electronic
             presentation and platform.  All Rights Reserved.
Hope this helps.
Allen
Allen W. Thrasher, Ph.D., Senior Reference Librarian
South Asia Team, Asian Division
Library of Congress, Jefferson Building 150
101 Independence Ave., S.E.
Washington, DC 20540-4810
tel. 202-707-3732; fax 202-707-1724; athr at loc.gov
The opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the Library
of Congress.
friends,
My friend Dr. Sandeep Joshi JRRSU is working on the asva sastra. He is
e
diting the text of Asva sastra earlier published in Sarasvati mahal.
but
the text is currupt and difficult to reconstruct. there is on info on
author
etc.
He wants to know whether there are early writings on this subject. One
reference is "Asva-sastra or the science of the horse"  of Hemasuri
eds. V.
J. A. and V. Krishnasamy  1928. Even we are finding it dificult to
trace
this book. we want some information.
thanks in advance.
Veeranarayana N.K. Pandurangi
Head, Dept of Darshanas,
Yoganandacharya Bhavan,
Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Samskrita University, Madau, post
Bhankrota, Jaipur, 302026.
