From mmdesh at UMICH.EDU  Wed Oct 13 15:42:32 2004
From: mmdesh at UMICH.EDU (Madhav Deshpande)
Date: Wed, 13 Oct 04 11:42:32 -0400
Subject: POSITION IN SOUTH/SOUTHEAST ASIAN ISLAM AT MICHIGAN
Message-ID: <161227075081.23782.6032679707809464501.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear Colleagues,

     I am forwarding the text of the ad for a position in South/Southeast Asian Islam at the Department of Asian Languages and the Department of Neareastern Studies at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.  Please circulate it to interested groups and individuals.  All correspondence regarding this position should be directed to the address given in the ad, and not to me personally.  Best,

Madhav Deshpande
University of Michigan

SOUTH /SOUTHEAST ASIAN ISLAM AT MICHIGAN
The Departments of Asian Languages and Cultures and Near Eastern Studies at the University of Michigan invite applications for a tenure-track position in South /Southeast Asian Islam, beginning in September 2005.  Appointment is possible at any rank. Applicants from a wide variety of periods and subfields within the area of South Asian and Southeast Asian Islamic Studies will be considered, but all applicants should possess a high level of proficiency in one or preferably two relevant languages as well as the ability to teach undergraduate courses on both the premodern and modern periods. The successful candidate is expected to teach a range of courses from introductory undergraduate lecture courses on Islam in Asia (including South Asia, Southeast Asia and China), through graduate seminars in areas of research interest; to supervise doctoral dissertations; and to participate actively in the programs of his/her home departments as well as in area studies initiatives within a larger university community that encourages interdisciplinary efforts. Of special interest are candidates who share a commitment to historically grounded scholarship that is both rigorous and original and who are drawn to the intellectual opportunities afforded by programs of significant contextual depth.  The Ph.D. is expected to have been completed prior to appointment. Evidence of outstanding teaching ability and of promise in research is essential.  Each application should consist of a cover letter (describing the applicant's scholarly work, teaching, and research plans), a full CV, research statement, evidence of successful teaching, representative publications or a writing sample, and at least three letters of recommendation.  The University of Michigan is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and members of minority groups are encouraged to apply. The University is supportive of the needs of dual career couples.   Review of applications will begin on January 17, 2005 and continue until the position is filled. Please send materials to S/SEAI Search, Department of Near Eastern Studies, University of Michigan, 105 S. State St., 2068 Frieze Building, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1285.  




