From Palaniappa at aol.com  Tue May  8 21:20:53 2018
From: Palaniappa at aol.com (Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan)
Date: Tue, 08 May 18 16:20:53 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Date of the Tolkappiyam
In-Reply-To: <6CA66377-D0AA-4248-9920-2F6ACB7711E2@berkeley.edu>
Message-ID: <273F00D3-C2DA-47B7-9494-06080F951B75@aol.com>

Based on the work I have done, the date of 9th century for the Classical Tamil texts is too late. 

At the Archaeology of Bhakti II: Royal Bhakti, Local Bhakti workshop-cum-conference, I presented two papers. One was entitled, ?On the War Instruments Mentioned in Periya Tirumo?i 2.9.9,? in which I dated the poem by Tiruma?kai ??v?r to 8th cerntury based on historical, epigraphical and philological considerations. The core problem was that  almost everyone had assumed that only one instrument was being mentionedin the verse. Actually, there were two instruments, a conch and a drum. Ka?uv?y was not describing the nature of the drum. It represented the name of the conch used in battle. The conch was most probably so named because blowing the conch produced a sound similar to the roar of a tiger.  The K?nd?r grant was simply rendering into Sanskrit the Tamil name Ka?uv?y. The presentation was well received and I was asked to submit it for the proceedings. However, I had also presented a paper on the Tamil P??ar as portrayed in hagiographic texts and inscriptions in which I pointed out that what the hagiographic texts had presented as the untouchability of the P??ar was fiction and was diametrically opposite to what the inscriptions and other historical data were showing. During the Q&A period after the talk, one Dr. Vijayavenugopal of EFEO went on a rant for so long that  the session moderator had to close the session and I did not have any time to respond to him! It showed how even persons working in institutions like EFEO treated hagiographies as history. As a result, since one could only submit one paper as part of the proceedings, I submitted the paper on the Tamil P??ar, which woud change the opinion that has been held by Tamil scholars for more than 800 years. If I had submitted the paper on Periya Tirumo?i 2.9.9, it would not have impacted the date of Classical Tamil texts since almost nobody other than Dr. Tieken subscribes to the 9th century date for those texts. So I have not published the paper on Periya Tirumo?i 2.9.9 anywhere yet.

To cut the long story short, if the Periya Tirumo?i is dated in the 8th century, the 9th century date for the Classical Tamil texts is impossible.

Regards,
Palaniappan



> On May 7, 2018, at 10:26 AM, George Hart via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
> 
> It was my impression that, like many older Indian works (cf. the Vy?sa Mah?bh?rata, the Rig Veda, probably the N??ya??stra), the Tolk?ppiyam is a collection of things that may have been composed at different dates. Some parts may be quite early, some later, but I would be pretty surprised if anything in the work is as late as the 9th century. My opinion is that parts of the work may go back to (or mirror/be influenced by) things as early as the 1st century BCE (and conceivably even earlier) while other parts may be as late as the 3rd or even 4th century CE. Burnell's work relating the Tolk?ppiyam to the Sanskrit Aindra (On the Aindra School of Sanskrit Grammarians: Their Place in the Sanskrit, available on Google) is important. One might note that P??ini describes things that are earlier than the Sanskrit used when he composed his work ? I am not a vaiy?kara?ika, but I am sure people on this list can speak to this. The writers of grammars, whether in Sanskrit or Tamil, do not appear out of thin air. George
> 
>> On May 7, 2018, at 5:40 AM, Jan E.M. Houben via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info <mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
>> 
>> Dear Paniappan, 
>> As an old student of Prof. Kamil Zvelebil and of his student Dr Saskia Kersenboom I am not convinced that his translation is wrong or outdated. 
>> Moreover, even with his translation you can argue that the imperative is prescriptive for the first time. 
>> In other words, his translation is here only cited as a "strawman" with the WISH to attribute a more ancient date to the Tolk?ppiyam.
>> Since, however, the most generally accepted etymogy of  Tolk?ppiyam is "old K?vya" and since K?vya has a convincing etymology from the Vedic-Old Persian kav? this grammar was apparently composed or at least "named" after Sanskrit K?vya developed as a literary phenomenon. Which would match the datings proposed by Prof. Tieken in his recently reprinted study on this issue. 
>> Best regards, 
>> Jan Houben
>> 
>> 
>> On 7 May 2018 at 00:52, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info <mailto:indology at list.indology.info>> wrote:
>> Responding to a query on the date of the Tolk?ppiyam, I obtained some pages in the 2nd edition of Early Tamil Epigraphy (ETE) by Iravatham Mahadevan published in 2014. In his first edition Mahadevan had said on p. 231, ?It is thus clear that this grammatical work must have been composed after the pu??i was invented and had become an integral part of Tamil writing. Judging from the available evidence of the earliest occurrence of the pu??i from about the end of the 1st century A.D., Tolk?ppiyam was composed most probably not earlier than the Late Tamil-Br?hm? Period (ca. 2nd-4th centuries A.D.)? Unfortunately, Mahadevan had not consulted a crucial article by Rajam Ramamurti of 1982 entitled, "The Relevance of the Term Mey, O??u, and Pu??i To the System of Tamil Morpho-phonemics" in International Journal of Dravidian Linguistics, 11 , no. 1, pp. 167-183. In this article, it is stated:
>>  
