From dmagier at Princeton.EDU  Wed Jul 11 14:51:36 2018
From: dmagier at Princeton.EDU (David S. Magier)
Date: Wed, 11 Jul 18 14:51:36 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Position posting: please disseminate: South Asian Studies Librarian
In-Reply-To: <FA282384-B58A-4491-B19B-33E1C2B90218@princeton.edu>
Message-ID: <50F28E9E-E250-45A3-B52F-348EAF12E87E@princeton.edu>

Dear Indology colleagues,

Princeton University Library would be very grateful if you would disseminate the position announcement below, for a South Asian Studies Librarian, to anyone who might be qualified and interested. The posting contains precise instructions for applying.

Many thanks for your help in bringing this to the attention of qualified people.

Best regards,
David Magier

-------------------------
David Magier, PhD
Associate University Librarian for Scholarly Collections & Research Services
Princeton University Library
A-19-H2 Firestone Library
One Washington Road
Princeton, NJ. 08544

609-258-5710
dmagier at princeton.edu<mailto:dmagier at princeton.edu>

================
South Asian Studies Librarian
Princeton University Library
Princeton, NJ
Requisition D-18-LIB-00028

Princeton University seeks a collaborative, energetic, creative, service-oriented subject specialist to provide outstanding library services in the interdisciplinary field of South Asian Studies (SAS) and to shape & enrich its growing library collections. Reporting to Assistant University Librarian for Collection Development, the South Asian Studies Librarian is a key member of the area studies and humanities team in the Collection Development Department. Responsible for identifying and acquiring materials from and about South Asia in a wide range of subjects and formats, from all parts of the world, in western languages and select languages of the region. Functions as the key South Asian Studies resource person in the Library system, with broad expertise to assist students and faculty in teaching and researching any aspect of this field. Works closely with faculty, visiting scholars, students and staff in the South Asian Studies Program, the Center for Global India, and all other faculty and students working on South Asia, providing liaison, specialized research consultation and instruction, reference and other outreach initiatives; creates online guides to assist researchers.

This is one of many subject specialist professional positions for developing and interpreting Princeton's collections. Responsibilities include current and retrospective collection building (including shaping South Asia Ephemera Collection and born-digital web-based materials); managing large acquisitions funds and approval plans; advising on preservation, digitization, collection maintenance, including selection for offsite storage.

Collaborates closely with other librarians and units throughout the library system, including coordination with Scholarly Collections and Research Services, branch heads, Preservation, Library IT, Collections Acquisitions, Scholarly Content Access, Resource Sharing, Rare Books and Special Collections, Center for Digital Humanities, etc.

Represents Princeton in regional, national and international professional meetings and partnerships (including ReCAP, Ivy Plus, CONSALD, SACOOP, SAMP and SAOA); participates in inter-institutional initiatives for coordinated collection development, digitization and other projects.

Princeton University Library, one of the world?s leading research libraries, has a dedicated, knowledgeable staff of 300 in a large central library, 9 specialized branches and 3 storage facilities. PUL supports a diverse community of 5200 undergrads, 2700 graduates, 1200 faculty, and many visiting scholars. Holdings include more than 7 million printed volumes, 5 million manuscripts, 2 million non-print items, and extensive collections of digital text, data and images. Further info: http://library.princeton.edu<http://library.princeton.edu/>
Required Qualifications:
?     A PhD in a field related to South Asian Studies OR an ALA-accredited MLS degree with some South Asian Studies academic background.
?     Minimum 2 years professional experience working in an academic research library.
?     Broad knowledge of history and culture of the entire South Asia region, including scholarly resources and bibliographic tools.
?     Proficiency in Hindi or Urdu, including romanization; excellent oral and written communication skills in English and Hindi or Urdu.
?     Knowledge of the South Asian book trade.
?     Familiarity with current research and print and digital publishing trends in South Asian Studies.
?     Excellent interpersonal skills and the ability to work successfully and collegially with a diverse group of scholars and colleagues.

Preferred Qualifications:

?     For MLS degree holders, an advanced degree in a field related to South Asian Studies.

?     Experience with instruction, liaison, outreach and assistance to patrons in an academic setting.

?     Experience with new technologies for discovery and learning in a rapidly changing environment.


The successful candidate will be appointed to an appropriate Librarian rank depending upon qualifications and experience. Applications will be accepted only from the Jobs at Princeton website: https://puwebp.princeton.edu/AcadHire/apply/application.xhtml?listingId=7462 and must include a resume, cover letter, and a list of three references with full contact information. This position is subject to the University's background check policy.


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20180711/2da671e6/attachment.htm>

