From aryadeva at uchicago.edu  Fri Aug 31 21:39:31 2018
From: aryadeva at uchicago.edu (Christian Wedemeyer)
Date: Fri, 31 Aug 18 21:39:31 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] UChicago search in Hinduism
Message-ID: <FFAC3BC7-AF2A-4C49-9247-67B45CA5682E@uchicago.edu>

The University of Chicago Divinity School seeks scholar(s) at the rank of assistant professor (tenure-track) in the study of Hinduism, for an appointment date of July 1, 2019.


The Divinity School is seeking scholars whose research and teaching are focused on Hinduism, broadly construed both in terms of historical period (e.g., classical Sanskritic traditions, early modern devotionalism, contemporary ritual movements), and in terms of geographic and cultural range (any region or linguistic tradition of South or Southeast Asia, Hindu diaspora communities, etc.). A successful applicant must have linguistic competence necessary for rigorous work in primary sources (whether written or oral); the search is open, however, with regard to the primary language(s) involved (Sanskrit or Tamil, any of the vernacular languages of modern or pre-modern India, Nepali or Javanese, etc.). Successful applicants will demonstrate broad familiarity with academic approaches to the study of religion, and will have a research agenda that both promises a career of work consistent with the School?s profile as a pre-eminent site for the academic study of religion, and that can be pursued in connection with one of the School?s eleven areas of study.


The candidate for this position must hold the Ph.D. in a relevant discipline by the time of appointment, and must be qualified to teach and to direct doctoral-level research in his or her area of research and in the study of religion broadly construed.


The Divinity School is the graduate professional school for the academic study of religion at the University of Chicago, a private research university. Faculty in the School teach Ph.D. students in eleven areas of study, students in M.A., M.Div., and A.M.R.S. programs, and undergraduates in the College. Many faculty hold associate appointments in humanities or social science departments and professional schools of the University. A normal teaching load is four courses per year on a quarter system.


Review of complete applications will commence in late October and continue until the position is filled. Applicants should submit a letter of interest, CV, a teaching statement, a statement articulating future research agenda, a writing sample of 25-40 pages, and the names and contact information for three referees who know the applicant well. Applications should be made online, at https://academiccareers.uchicago.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=55743


The University of Chicago is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity/Disabled/Veterans Employer and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national or ethnic origin, age, status as an individual with a disability, protected veteran status, genetic information, or other protected classes under the law. For additional information please see the University's Notice of Nondiscrimination at http://www.uchicago.edu/about/non_discrimination_statement/. Job seekers in need of a reasonable accommodation to complete the application process should call 773-702-0287 or email ACO-Support at uchicago.edu<mailto:ACO-Support at uchicago.edu> with their request.





--
Christian K. Wedemeyer
Associate Professor of the History of Religions
Assistant Marshal of the University
University of Chicago Divinity School
1025 E 58th Street
Chicago, IL 60637
P Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail.
This email is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed and may contain information that is privileged and confidential. If the reader of this email message is not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution, or copying of this communication is prohibited. If you have received this email in error, please notify the sender and destroy/delete all copies of the transmittal. Thank you



-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20180831/7e431209/attachment.htm>

