From koenraad.elst at telenet.be  Thu Oct 18 22:56:35 2018
From: koenraad.elst at telenet.be (koenraad.elst at telenet.be)
Date: Fri, 19 Oct 18 00:56:35 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Lexical challenge for the OIT
In-Reply-To: <CAPEK=J-P1_fPGebgzLvWb6LeirH9GD-=CGH7ddPVL5n5KpUDSQ@mail.gmail.com>
Message-ID: <298149338.320321101.1539903395506.JavaMail.zimbra@telenet.be>


Dear Arnaud, 
dear listfolk, 


So you'd like to propose [me] a lexical challenge about [my] beloved OIT. The OIT is not my "beloved"; this is a well-known rhetorical strategem to emotionalize and thus to belittle an opponent's viewpoint. The OIT is just a theory, but one that happens to tally better with the evidence. The day you have counter-evidence, I'll listen to it attentively, and more politely than is the custom in your circles. 

This is the kind of challenge I welcome, far preferable to the stonewalling that has so far characterized the stand taken by most AIT champions. Now at last we are going to compare notes. But being serious business, it will take time. 

One important element that is already being addressed, is the PIE exchange with Tibetan, viz. by a young scholar from St-Petersburg, Igor Tonoyan-Belyayev, another convert to the OIT. Thus, Tib. pyugs, "cow", is said to be related to PIE > Latin pecus, "cattle", rather than to Sanskrit paSu. Of course it has its limitations, PIE being at the least 3000 year older than the oldest attested Tibetan, and still some 1500 years before the oldest cognate Chinese. But then Carpelan & Parpola dare to reconstruct both the Uralic and PIE genesis on the basis of languages separated from PIE by 5000 years. So this is a serious job, but logical: obviously the location of a language can partly be deduced from which other language has exchanged with it and which have not. 


You complain about my not mentioning your review of Talageri's 2008 book. Well, it was not material to the topic, so I didn't refer to it, anymore than to the review by NS Rajaram, who was equally scolding and negative, but then from a Hindu angle. (One of the misconceptions among outsiders of the Hindu view of the Homeland debate is that present-day politicos support the "OIT". In fact they oppose the AIT but don't support any scenario focusing on IE outside India, whether as origin or as destination. Their horizon stops at the Khyber Pass and they think any outside focus dishonours Mother India.). Meanwhile on your part, have you ever mentioned Talageri's reply to your review? I attach it here, and its two sequels, also to give third parties a glimpse of what this debate is about. It contains, among much else, a lexical challenge, and come to think of it, in fully ten years, you've never answered it. OK, so we'll take ten years to answer, and before we do, you answer first. 

