From disimone at alumni.stanford.edu  Wed Oct  3 20:33:55 2018
From: disimone at alumni.stanford.edu (Charles DiSimone)
Date: Wed, 03 Oct 18 22:33:55 +0200
Subject: [INDOLOGY] CFP: BDRC Occasional Papers in Buddhist Studies (BOPBS)
Message-ID: <CADKD_zi=koOYCab_RtBMBV9jLCz=T7irO_XjgZcOjTtMq2S49g@mail.gmail.com>

Dear friends and colleagues,

Please forgive any cross-posting. Below find the CFP for a new publication
series focussing on Buddhist Studies. Submissions from folk working on
Sanskrit or Pali material is quite encouraged.

All best,
Charles

Call for Papers:

BDRC Occasional Papers in Buddhist Studies (BOPBS)

On behalf of the Buddhist Digital Resource Center (BDRC
<https://www.tbrc.org/#!footer/about/newhome>), we are pleased to invite
academic papers on all facets of Buddhist Studies for the inaugural
publication of the BDRC Occasional Papers in Buddhist Studies (BOPBS)
series. BOPBS is an online, open access, peer-reviewed academic publication
series that will be one component of BDRC?s next-generation Linked Open
Data platform known as the Buddhist Universal Digital Archive (BUDA). The
BOPBS series provides the many scholars who cooperate with and contribute
to BDRC and use the material we have targeted for preservation with a venue
to publish the work resulting from their use of BDRC?s resources as well as
other original research. The series is edited and reviewed by scholars on
BDRC?s Board of Advisors and is professionally copy-edited ensuring digital
academic publications of a high caliber that are of immediate use to all
Buddhist Studies scholars and interested parties.

The series covers the following areas:

Papers on all aspects of Buddhist Studies in relation to primary textual
sources in any of the known languages of Buddhist textual transmission will
be considered for publication including but not limited to work on:
Buddhist literature, narrative studies, philology, codicology, epigraphy,
textual studies, textual collections, textual preservation, Digital
Humanities, methodological issues found within Buddhist Studies as it
relates to Buddhist literature, or either classical or digital approaches
to the study of any of the aforementioned topics. Critical editions and/or
translations of Buddhist texts are also encouraged.

Editorial Board

Stefan Baums

Marcus Bingenheimer

Jowita Kramer

Todd Lewis

Alexander von Rospatt

Vesna Wallace

Date of publication: BOPBS is currently inviting papers for Volume 1
scheduled to be published in Summer 2019.

Submission deadline: Drafts should be submitted by March 1, 2019. Authors
are welcome to contact the editor before the submission deadline.

Submission guidelines: All submissions should be sent in both MS Word (or
equivalent) and PDF format. Formatting should follow the latest edition of
the Chicago Manual of Style. While there is no page limit, submissions
should generally fall within 5,000?10,000 words. Authors wishing to submit
a substantially longer paper are encouraged to contact the editor.
Contributions for subsequent volumes will be accepted on a rolling basis
and will be considered as they arrive for the next available upcoming
volume. Please include a brief biographical note (50?100 words) with your
submission. Send your manuscript, proposals for potential works relevant to
the series that are still in the planning stage, and questions to the
editor, Charles DiSimone at disimone at tbrc.org.


-- 
Dr. des. Charles DiSimone | Research Scholar
Buddhist Digital Resource Center ????????
tbrc.org


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20181003/b8c264ca/attachment.htm>

