From Palaniappa at AOL.COM  Mon Mar 23 03:54:12 1998
From: Palaniappa at AOL.COM (Palaniappa)
Date: Sun, 22 Mar 98 22:54:12 -0500
Subject: Vivekananda &c.
Message-ID: <161227036989.23782.6891117648433775170.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

In a message dated 98-03-21 15:49:49 EST, vsundaresan at HOTMAIL.COM writes:

<< If you read Sankara's brahmasUtrabhAshya carefully however, you will see
 that right after he quotes the smRtis denying study of the Veda to
 SUdras, Sankara admits that some, like vidura and dharmavyAdha, gain
 self-knowledge through other means. In other words, he is clear that
 tradition prohibits scriptural learning to SUdras, but allows both that
 scriptural knowledge is not necessarily spiritual knowledge and that
 spiritual knowledge is available through non-Sruti sources. And Sankara
 also ultimately devalues scriptural knowledge in relation to spiritual
 (self-)knowledge, something that is unthinkable for most others.>>

I do not think this is right. Commenting on Brahmasutra 1.3.34, responding to
the opponents' view that "smRti moreover speaks of vidUra and others who were
born from zUdra mothers as possessing eminent knowledge.-Hence the zUdra has a
claim to the knowledge of Brahman", zankara says:

"To this we reply that the zUdras have no such claim, on account of their not
studying the Veda. A person who has studied the Veda and understood its sense
is indeed qualified for Vedic matters; but a zUdra does not study the Veda,
for such a study demands as its antecedent the upanayana-ceremony, and that
ceremony belongs to the three (higher) castes only. The mere circumstance of
being in a condition of desire does not furnish a reason for qualification, if
capability is absent. Mere temporal capability again does not constitute a
reason for qualification, spiritual capability being required in spiritual
matters. And spiritual capability is (in the case of the zUdras) excluded by
their being excluded from the study of the Veda.-The Vedic statement,
moreover, that the zUdra is unfit for sacrifices intimates , because founded
on reasoning, that he is unfit for knowledge also; for the argumentation is
the same in both cases."

One cannot be more emphatic than this w.r.t to denying spiritual knowledge to
the zUdras.

Regarding the case of vidUra he says in his commentary on Brahmasutra 1.3.39,
"The prohibitions of hearing and studying the Veda already imply the
prohibition of the knowledge and performance of Vedic matters; there are
however, express prohibitions also, such as 'he is not to impart knowledge to
the zUdra,' and 'to the twice-born belong study, sacrifice, and the bestowal
