Alexander the Great, Candragupta. From there he goes to Asoka and estimates the
rise of Buddhism at ca. 500 B.C. Argues that Vedic texts must be earlier. Next
step is weaker, more guesswork: 200 years for sUtra-period, 200 for Brahmana,
and arrives at 1000 B.C. as date when collection of hymns has taken place (but
now we know: oldest brAhmanas do not know our saMhitAs). For the whole argument
we can speak of a "shrewd guess" only with hindsight. Average methodological
strength: 30.

Alternative datings: Rgveda at 4500 BCE (Jacobi, calculated on basis of
astronomic hints in Rgveda). Most problematic in his argument is his acceptance
of Rgveda as single unit: the marriage-of-sUryA myth may have been an older
myth expressed in a Rgvedic hymn. Other weaknesses pointed out by Oldenberg.
Yet Jacobi's argument was not entirely worthless for some Rgvedic mythic
elements, and if there were no other arguments against an old date much more of
the Rgveda could be old.
Average strength, for entire RV: 10;
for some mythical Vedic elements: 30.

Tilak's Arctic Home? Tilak adopted a method -- a defensible method in his time -
- and followed it, even when it led him to unexpected results. Very good. But
there are similar weaknesses as in the case of astronomical datings:
Average strength, for entire RV: 10;
for some mythical Vedic elements: 30.

Rgveda at 8000 BCE:
I am insufficiently familiar with the relevant arguments to be able to judge
them.
One assumption is that Sarasv./Indus and RV-civilisation were not incompatible,
either because RV-poets did speak of 1000-pillared mansions, or because they
later on largely neglected co-existing urban cultures so might have done it
earlier as well. A more positive argument in support of it would have been
astronomical (Kak), in style similar to Jacobi's argument (please correct me if
I am wrong).
Hence:
Average methodological strength of arguments in support of 8000 BCE,
for entire RV: 10;
for some mythical Vedic elements: 30.

Greetings, JH




