In his 11th century Prameyakamalam?rta??a, ?The sun [that opens] the lotus of the knowable?, Prabh?candra supports the Jain thesis of non-one-sidedness. According to this version of epistemological pluralism, apparently antagonistic sets of justified knowledge statements can coexist. This is due first, to the nature of the object of knowledge, which is essentially complex; second, to the nature of human epistemic faculties, which cause human beings to subsume diversity into unity and to resolve the however essential complexity of the object of knowledge. Jains call ?viewpoints? the main types of explanation of the world through the resolution of complexity and they develop classifications of these viewpoints. Prabh?candra is part of a tradition that claims that there are seven of them. The aim of this paper is to display one of the lines of criticism that Prabh?candra addresses to the representative of the fifth viewpoint, called ?semantic? viewpoint, namely the grammarians inasmuch as they intend to formulate a unique system of distinctions apt to represent the distinctions active in the language that describes the world. From the analysis of this line of criticism about the meaning of grammatical tenses and the denotation of an expression containing implicit temporal parameters, our aim is to show that what is called into question in these arguments is firstly the possibility to establish in a universal way a system of rules. - 11 pp.

? Kunio Harikai, M?m??saka Theory of Gau?a or Metaphor, from ?abarasv?min to Kum?rilabha??a 
This essay intends to describe some of the general opinions on gau?a, the metaphorical function of the word, from the viewpoints of the M?m??s? school. Specializing in Vedic exegesis, the school has developed considerations on the metaphorical function of words, which can be found gathered within the arthav?da sections of its main works. At first I explore the commentary (Bh??ya) of ?abarasv?min on the M?m??s?s?tra, and then examine Kum?rila?s Tantrav?rttika, the critical sub-commentary on the Bh??ya, thereby clarifying the general conception of gau?a for these two M?m??s? scholars and at the same time pointing out differences of interpretation between them. The most conspicuous difference is that Kum?rila might have, perhaps for the first time in the M?m??s? tradition, documented the ?ropa (superimposition) theory and attacked it in his Tantrav?rttika, this being dependent on the condition that Kum?rila precedes Prabh?kara. The ?ropa theory itself was accepted by Buddhist philosophers. It is possible, therefore, that Kum?rila was arguing against Buddhist philosophers, especially against the epistemological school of Buddhism initiated by Dign?ga. I could not, however, find any clear evidence thereof. More detailed and comprehensive studies would have to be carried out in order to arrive at this conclusion. - 19 pp.

? Philippe Swennen, Le nom de Yay?ti 
Although Yay?ti is a hero well known in the Sanskrit epics, there is no satisfying analysis of his name. In this article, it is shown that no etymological key exists because Yay?ti?s name is built on the basis of the beginning of the stanza RV VIII 42,3c. The main texts justifying this hypothesis are collected. - 9 pp.

? Christophe Vielle, Les moyens de connaissance valide selon le Rasavai?e?ika-s?tra et son commentaire par Narasi?ha    
This article examines the means of valid knowledge (pram??as) according to Bhadanta N?g?rjuna?s Rasavai?e?ika-s?tra (IV 70), an ancient ?yurvedic work (4th-5th centuries CE?), and its commentary by Narasi?ha. Following the s?tra, the pram??as are six, viz. pratyak?a (perception), anum?na (inference), upam?na (identification), ?gama (tradition), arth?patti (implication) and sa?bhava (inclusion). These are the same as in the M?m??s? tradition except for the sixth. Quoted and parallel passages for this portion of Narasi?ha?s commentary are found in the works of the Buddhist logician Dign?ga and in Candrak?rti?s Prasannapad? (a commentary on N?g?rjuna?s Madhyamakak?rik?s), as well as in the Carakasa?hit?, the Ny?yabh??ya, the Yuktid?pik? and other commentaries to the S??khyak?rik?s (4-5), and in Vy?sa?s bh??ya to the Yogas?tras (I 7). Accordingly, the commentary could date to the 7th-8th centuries; its author appears to have been a Buddhist physician, like the author of the s?tras. - 13 pp.  

Dieux, g?nies, anges et d?mons
? Jacques Scheuer, Entre d?mons, dieux, Bouddhas : des fronti?res fluides
The disciples of the Buddha have nothing to expect from gods and nothing to fear from demons. Indian and Tibetan stories of subjugation of Hindu deities by Buddhas or Bodhisattvas should not be interpreted as mere display of superior power. The skilful use of violence cab be a compassionate way to manifest the potential for full awakening present in all beings, including gods and demons. - 16 pp.


D?but du message r?exp?di? :

> De: Christian Cannuyer <cannuyerchristian at gmail.com>
> Objet: M?langes en l'honneur de Jean-Marie VERPOORTEN ACTA ORIENTALIA BELGICA 30
> Date: 18 janvier 2017 13:07:25 UTC+1
> 
> 
> Madame, Monsieur,
> Ch?re coll?gue, cher coll?gue,
> 
> veuillez trouver ici en pi?ce attach?e le bulletin de souscription ? nos Acta Orientalia Belgica 30, offerts en hommage ? Jean-Marie VERPOORTEN.
> Nous vous rappelons que les membres de notre Soci?t? Royale Belge d'?tudes Orientales en r?gle de cotisation pour 2016 recevront automatiquement ce volume. Ils ne doivent donc pas souscrire. Si  vous ?tes dans ce cas, merci cependant de diffuser ce bulletin de souscription aupr?s de toute personne qui pourrait ?tre int?ress?e dans votre r?seau de relations.
> 
> Si vous n'?tes pas membre en r?gle de cotisation pour 2016, la souscription ? ce volume est ouverte jusqu'au 20 f?vrier. Les noms des souscripteurs et membres de la SRBEO en ordre de cotisation figureront dans la Tabula Gratulatoria.
> 
> Avec les meilleurs voeux pour 2017 de tout le Bureau de la SRBEO.
> 
> 
> Christian CANNUYER
> Facult? de Th?ologie catholique de Lille
> Pr?sident de la Soci?t? Royale Belge d'?tudes Orientales
> (http://www.orientalists.be)
> Directeur du Bulletin Solidarit?-Orient Werk-voor-het-Oosten
> (http://www.orient-oosten.org/)
> Directeur de la Collection "Fils d'Abraham" (Brepols)
> Secr?taire G?n?ral du Cercle Royal d'Histoire et d'Arch?ologie d'Ath
>  
> adresse: rue Haute, 21 - B 7800 Ath (Belgique)
> t?.: 00+32+ (0)68-287467
> email : cannuyerchristian at gmail.com



???????????????????
Christophe Vielle
Louvain-la-Neuve





-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170122/bed207d6/attachment.htm>
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: M?LANGESENLHONNEURDEJEAN-MARIEVERPOORTENACTAORIENTALIABELGICA30.doc
Type: application/msword
Size: 680448 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170122/bed207d6/attachment.doc>
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170122/bed207d6/attachment-0001.htm>

