[INDOLOGY] krishnamacharya and 'inner wealth'
In the Viveka Cudamani, Shankara speaks of four attainments starting with verse 18. There are viveka, vair?gya, and mumuk?utva,
The fourth is ?am?di?a?sampatti, or, ?a?sampatti, the six attainments: (i) ?ama; (ii) dama ; (iii) uparama; (iv) titiks?a; (v) ?raddh?; (vi) sam?dh?na
Best,
Dean
      From: patrick mccartney via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info>
 To: Indology List <indology at list.indology.info> 
 Sent: Wednesday, January 25, 2017 12:16 PM
 [INDOLOGY] krishnamacharya and 'inner wealth'
Dear Friends,?
At the top of page 16 from this English translation of Krishnamacharya's "Yoga Makaranda", there is a list of four characteristics that he suggests need to be attained through yog?bhy?sa, and which are said to comprise j??nam:
http://terebess.hu/english/Yoga-Makaranda.pdf
The original text is written in Kannada (1934), and this English translation (2006) is from the Tamil edition (1938). I haven't been able to locate a copy of either the '34 or '38 editions.?
I'm wondering if anyone might be able to tell me what the term is that he uses for "inner wealth".
The three other characteristics are familiar to me, viz., viveka, vair?gya, and mumuk?utva.?
Thanks.
All the best,
Patrick McCartney, PhDFellowSchool of Culture, History & Language
College of the Asia-Pacific
The Australian National University
Canberra, Australia, 0200
Skype - psdmccartneyPhone + Whatsapp: ?+61 414 954 748Twitter - @psdmccartney
bodhap?rvam calema ;-)
academia   
   - 
Linkedin
Edanz
#yogabodyANU2016 symposium?
Ep1 - Imagining Sanskrit Land
Ep 2 - Total-am
Ep 3 - Jalam ? Chillum
Ep 4 - It's Time to get Married
A Day in our Ashram
Stop animation short film of Shakuntala?
Forced to Clean Human Waste
One of my favourite songs
The Philosophy of Cycling
Plato's Cave
Endangered Languages MOOC
Blackfella-Whitefella
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
indology-owner at list.indology.info (messages to the list's managing committee)
http://listinfo.indology.info (where you can change your list options or unsubscribe)
