[INDOLOGY] Correct reading in Taittiriya Samhita edition?
Dear Harry,
Since I have not yet seen a reply to this, and although I am not a Vedic
specialist, I will say that these are not misprints, but are in fact sandhi
as you suspected. The final dental "n" on sarv?n would change to the
palatal "?" before the initial palatal "j" of jambhayan. This is a sandhi
rule and is the norm in Sanskrit manuscripts. However, an editor of printed
texts is free to override the sandhi rule and restore the dental "n" if he
so wishes. This is sometimes done for clarity, and is often done when the
words are separated by a space in printed texts, unlike in manuscripts. So
both are correct.
The added "t" after jambhayan before the initial "s" of sarv?? is due to an
optional sandhi rule in Vedic Sanskrit. On this you may consult Arthur
Macdonell's *A Vedic Grammar for Students*, p. 30, paragraph 36.a., or his
full *Vedic Grammar*, p. 69, paragraph 77.2.f.
The nearest thing to a definitive edition of the Taittir?ya Sa?hit? is the
edition by N. S. Sontakke and (mostly) T. N. Dharmadhikari, 1970-2010, five
volumes in nine parts, mentioned by Peter Wyzlic. It supersedes the three
older editions you quoted from (of course, barring misprints). For this
phrase it has (vol. 3, part 1, 1990, p. 389): sarv?n jambhayantsarv??ca.
Your surmise is correct that Mahadeva Sastri and Rangacharya in their
edition with Bha??a Bh?skara Mi?ra's commentary never edited book 4. This
is because no manuscript of book 4 with his commentary could then be found.
Even for this volume of Dharmadhikari's edition, published in 1990, no
manuscript of his commentary on book 4 could yet be found. However, his
commentary on book 4, chapter 5, the Rudr?dhy?ya, was available separately,
so is included in this edition. It is much more extensive than S?ya?a's
commentary on this chapter.
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Tue, Jan 10, 2017 at 3:46 PM, Harry Spier via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
