[INDOLOGY] Discussing Academia.edu
Dear Tim,
I'm glad to hear your positive background about Sarah Bond.  Good to know,
and I'm with her on the importance of the OA movement, etc. (as everyone in
hearing range of me knows, ad nauseam :-)
Regarding "the commercial nature of the company," I can scarcely think of a
more benign outfit.  Academia.edu is free at point of use (unless you want
extras, which aren't important to most people).   Not just shareware free
(some features disabled, some time limits), but completely free.  Full
features, no time limits.   But it has to have some business model (like
any outfit, universities included), so it raised venture capital.  The
venture people do this because they are rich enough to play a long game and
they believe that somewhere down the line, Academia.edu will start
generating revenue.  This is the same idea as all of them, Google,
Facebook, etc.  They start with long periods as loss-makers, but providing
a service that many appreciate.  Eventually, they work out ways to generate
a revenue stream.  Academia.edu is looking for ways to make money,
obviously, but not aggressively.  They keep exploring ideas, but discuss
things extensively with users, and they listen to complaints.   My guess is
that, eventually, we'll have either to pay a modest subscription ($5-10 per
month, perhaps, like the video or music streaming services?) or accept
advertising on the site.  That's how most such services go.  But there's
nothing in any of this that sets Academia.edu apart from anyone else, and
certainly nothing that could support an argument that we shouldn't use the
service.
As you say, Zenodo is no use for humanists at present, and specifically
brands itself as a service for the science community.   HC has the
right-looking pedigree, but as you also point out, nobody's using it.  And
size matters.  Big is different.  There's some threshold of membership
above which a social-networking-academic service begins to be genuinely
valuable.  It's not a trivial point.
The issue of scrupulousness is very important too.  Too much of it is
stifling; too little is illegal.  We're all hamstrung by outdated systems
of copyright and intellectual property law, and by our own gullible
willingness to hand our writings to men in suits who gladly make millions
of dollars off the material.   The fact that Academia.edu leaves it to us
end users to make our minds up about what we do with our own writing
strongly appeals to me.  But I do worry that a consortium of academic
publishers will one day land on Academia.edu from a great height.
 (Remember the Library.nu <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library.nu> story
ten years ago?)  I think there's a kind of chicken game going on, with
Academia.edu hoping to become too big to fail, as it were.  At some point,
a publisher like Elsevier or Springer may try to make them an offer they
can't refuse.  Complete with NY accents, sunglasses, and wide lapels.
I would like to see Academia.edu transition to a non-profit model.  But
who's going to pay for that?
Best,
Dominik
?
Professor Dominik Wujastyk <http://ualberta.academia.edu/DominikWujastyk>
?,?
Singhmar Chair in Classical Indian Society and Polity
?,?
Department of History and Classics <http://historyandclassics.ualberta.ca/>
?,?
University of Alberta, Canada
?.?
South Asia at the U of A:
?sas.ualberta.ca?
??
On 26 January 2017 at 10:49, Lubin, Tim via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
