>From the 17th century onwards, research into the historicity of a vast flood, whether local or universal in nature, led European Orientalists to investigate the redactional history of the various mythological versions of the Pur??as, and induced explorers to record a number of Himalayan oral traditions related to such a deluge. In his work Asia polyglotta, which was published in 1823, Julius Klaproth attempted to sketch a chronology of these various Oriental versions of a flood myth, and put forward the idea that the recollection of a vast Asian flood had been preserved in the Tibetan oronym ?Buddala? or ?Schiffstr?ger?. The present article briefly examines this interpretation of the toponym Potala, quite unique in its time, incorporating as it did Indian and Tibetan Mah?y?na Buddhist traditions concerning the bodhisattva Avalokite?vara. - 12 pp.

? Paul-?mile Dumont (?), Le Ved?nta d?apr?s Shankar?charya 
This article is the edition of a detailed summary (of which only a few rare copies were printed) of a causerie which was delivered in Brussels in the year 1927 by the Belgian Indologist Paul-?mile Dumont (1879-1968). The aim of this paper was to present to a non-specialist audience the main tenets of the Advaita-Ved?nta doctrine according to ?a?kara. The author introduces in a clear manner several important Sanskrit philosophical concepts and deals successively with what he calls the theology ? exoteric or esoteric ?, the cosmology, the psychology and the eschatology of the Ved?nta, even venturing a few comparisons with the Christian doctrine of the Gospels. It appears that Dumont draws here directly from a paper by Paul Deussen, which he merely summarizes in translating and paraphrasing extracts. - 5 pp.

? Vincent Eltschinger, The Yog?c?rabh?mi against Allodoxies (parav?da): 3. The Caste-Classes 
The Yog?c?rabh?mi, a massive compilation of the early Yog?c?ra ?school(s),? contains a comparatively short section dedicated to the critical examination of sixteen ?allodoxies? (parav?da), mostly non-Buddhist doctrines, practices and institutions, some of which go back to the Brahmaj?la- and ?r?ma?yaphalas?tra of the D?rgh?gama. This section, which could be dated to the late 3rd century CE, is a remarkable milestone in the history of philosophy in the Buddhist environment in that it summarizes and updates earlier canonical arguments, adapting them to a new polemical context, and reveals Buddhist philosophy?s profound indebtedness to s?tra literature. The present paper analyzes allodoxy no. 14 (agrav?da), the brahmins? claim to socio-religious superiority, i.e., to be the purest and most excellent of the caste-classes. - 38 pp.

? Dylan Esler, L??poque dynastique de l?empire tib?tain 
This article seeks to provide some indispensable reference points for a contextual understanding of the dynastic age of the Tibetan empire, a significant period in Tibetan history that was to have a determining influence on the Tibetans? self-understanding of their cultural, religious and political identity. - 12 pp.

? Emmanuel Francis, La sixi?me ? vacherie ? d?Ellis 
At the beginning of the 19th c., Francis Whyte Ellis (1777?1819), one of the major figures of Orientalism, notably as the discoverer of the Dravidian group of languages, wrote in Tamil a treatise in order to persuade Indians to undertake smallpox vaccination, introducing it as the sixth boon from the cow. A manuscript kept in the BULAC in Paris contains the only Tamil version known so far. The present paper provides the sketch of a deeper investigation about this manuscript, its Tamil text, Ellis?s project and its historical context. - 14 pp.

? Marie-H?l?ne Gorisse, R?va?a empereur universel ? Point de vue s?mantique et probl?mes de r?f?rence chez le ja?n Prabh?candra  
