[INDOLOGY] INDUS CIVILISATION.
George Thomson wrote, on the amateurish pop science article on the so-called ?Indus script? posted on the List: 
When I pointed out the egregious ad hominem nature of this remark, he responded:
Well, when you compare me to Donald Trump, plus all the other nasty ad hominem comments you?ve directed at me over the last 12 years on this List or others, it?s pretty reasonable to say that it has a SOMETHING to do with your personal animosity towards me. We last saw each other I think nearly 15 years briefly at a conference at Harvard. It is really time to stop all these public attacks on me.
Anyway, those attcks have nothing to do with my scholarship, let alone anything ?Vedic.? 
What do Vedic traditions have to do with Indus symbols, which were long many centuries before Vedic culture appeared on the scene? Nothing, unless you cave in to Hindutva political mythology, which of course you don?t! :)
The 2004 paper on the nonlinguistic nature of Indus symbols written by Michael Witzel, Richard Sproat, and I was a joint collaboration ? not my sole production -- and Michael and Richard and I, still very close friends of mine, remain committed to every major claim we jointly made in that paper 13 years ago. 
Take a look again at our paper, which you yourself strongly endorsed when it first came out. It certainly does NOT have anything to do with Vedic traditions? except in its discussion of Hindutva attempts to conflate Indus and Vedic traditions that no serious researcher in the world takes seriously: 
www.safarmer.com/fsw2.pdf <http://www.safarmer.com/fsw2.pdf>
Note also that  there isn?t a single polemical or ad hominem comment in the entire article ? just lots of evidence that ended up embarrassing a lot of people, since in terms just of readership, it is by far the most read and discussed article ever written on the Indus Valley. Hence all the nasty polemics.
I hate to have to respond to you on the Indology List, but when someone compares me absurdly to tthe most dangerous human on the planet, it seems reasonable to respond, though it wastes needless time.
Thanks and over and out -
Steve
