[INDOLOGY] Call for papers: History of Science in India Symposium, Canterbury University, Christchurch, New Zealand, April 19-20 2017
Dear Colleagues,
I'm delighted to announce the upcoming international symposium "History of Science in India" which will take place April 19-20th 2017, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand (see attached poster and url below).
http://www.canterbury.ac.nz/events/active/uc-events/history-of-science-in-india-international-symposium.html
The streams in this two-day event will include (but are not limited to) history of mathematics, astronomy, medicine, and technology with three keynote speakers from India: Prof Ramasubramanian (IIT Bombay; history of mathematics), Prof Sriram (IIT Madras; history of astronomy), and Prof Rama Jayasundar (Cambridge educated medical surgeon at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi; history of Ayurvedic medicine).
Registration is free but essential.  To register, or to send a title and abstract for consideration, please email me
clemency.montelle at canterbury.ac.nz
by Friday March 17th.
Following the symposium, a 5-day workshop is planned which will mix emerging and experienced researchers to reflect  on methodology in the History of Science in Sanskrit Sources, including manuscriptology, paleography, critical editing, translation issues,  technical commentary writing, and digital humanities resources.  Please email me to register your interest for this.
This symposium is supported by a generous grant from the New Zealand India Research Institute.
With best wishes,
Clemency
Dr. Clemency Montelle
Associate Professor
School of Mathematics and Statistics
University of Canterbury | Te Whare Wananga o Waitaha
Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140
NEW ZEALAND
http://www.math.canterbury.ac.nz/~c.montelle/
[cid:ec50263c-5f54-427d-b558-e67d9b306053]
This email may be confidential and subject to legal privilege, it may
not reflect the views of the University of Canterbury, and it is not
guaranteed to be virus free. If you are not an intended recipient,
please notify the sender immediately and erase all copies of the message
and any attachments.
Please refer to http://www.canterbury.ac.nz/emaildisclaimer for more
information.
