Suresh,
The interpretation of 10.33.31 should consider 10.33.29 through 10.33.34. (According to David Reigle, all these verses are in the critical edition, but in chapter 30 instead of 33.) The overall approach of these verses seems to consist of identifying three categories of beings less in status than K???a (??varas, devotees, and sages), stating each of them will not be adversely affected by any act of impropriety they engage in., and finally asking if they, beings inferior to K???a, can engage in such act, why couldn?t K???a, who is the Supreme Lord who has created everything? This is the justification of K???a?s actions during r?sal?l?.
Verses 10.33.29 through 10.33.32 speak of ??varas.
In verse 10.33.29, we have multiple ??varas and not one.
In verse 10.33.31, we have multiple ??varas and not one. Also, these multiple ??varas have said something which is said to be true.
These same ??varas are free of ego (based on 10.33.32) and when these ??varas? act in violation of what is proper, they are not affected by their action.  
10.33.33 poses the comparative question: (if the above-discussed lesser beings are not bound by the propriety or impropriety of their action), how will the Lord (K???a) who has created everything be bound by such action? 
10.33.34 further compares the Lord against the devotees ('those who serve the dust at the Lord?s feet') and sages. (?Those who serve the dust at the Lord?s feet? reminds one of the Tamil word for devotees ?a?iy?r? meaning ?ones who are at the feet?, which can mean devotees or servants or slaves. See DEDR 72.)
In my opinion, considering all these verses, Prabhupada?s characterization of the multiple ??varas as ?the Lord?s empowered servants? is not far off the mark. In fact, I consider it to be far better than the translation ?gods? by Tracy Coleman in her 2010 paper entitled, "Viraha-Bhakti and Stri?dharma: Re-Reading the Story of Kr?s?n?a and the Gopi?s in the Harivam?s?a and the Bha?gavata Pura?n?a,? (JAOS, vol. 130, no. 3, pp. 385-412). 
Ironically, Tracy Coleman (p. 405) introduces 10.33.31 [which in her version is 10.33.32] saying, 
?K???a?s extraordinary behavior notwithstanding, in fact, the Bh?gavata stresses that one should never imitate his deeds (10.33.31), but rather embody his spoken position: 
	"The word of the gods is good, likewise their behavior on occasion. The wise one should therefore behave according to their decrees. (10.33.32)? 
Coleman's treatment of what the word of ?the gods? was supposed to be is not satisfactory. She has disregarded the plural in her own translation. It is as though she has interpreted K???a as one of 'the gods'. This goes against the spirit of the BhP, according to which K???a is not just one of the ??varas but rather the Supreme Lord. 
The interpretation of muliple ??varas as ?the gods' also conflicts with the necessity of these ??varas to be without ego.  After all, the gods are not exemplars of egoless persons in the Hindu tradition. For instance, Indra does not exactly act without ego in the Govardhana hill episode. In contrat, the extreme humility of the ??v?rs revealed in their poems is very striking. The epitome of such a poem is Tiruv?ymo?i 3.7.10 in which the author says, ?...we are the servants of the servants of the servants of the servants of the servants of the servants of the servants of the servants (of Vi??u).? (In fact, I think this is a critical diagnostic attribute in identifying the ??v?rs as the ??varas here.)
Thus, the requirements of (1) multiple ??varas, (2) the ??varas having said something considered to be true and (3) the ??varas being without ego are all met by the interpretation of ??vara as ??v?r. The semantic equivalence of S?nskrit ??vara and Tamil ??v?r is very clear even independent of BhP.
The BhP verses discussed above will make sense when the multiple ??varas are taken as referring to the multiple ??v?rs and their word is taken as referring to the poems of the Tivviyappirapantam. The ??v?rs also can be said to be without ego as revealed by their bhakti poetry.  The allusions to some improper actions by the ??v?r/s may suggest that by the time of the composition of BhP some hagiographical stories might have been in circulation (without being written down) such as Tiruma?kai engaging in robbery or ????? wearing the garland before being offered to the deity.
That Prabhupada came close but not exactly to the right solution was probably because the real etymology of ??v?r/??v?r was not known when he wrote the commentary.
The fact that the ??varas are referred to in the plural suggests that the ??v?rs have come to be recognized as a group by the time of the composition of this chapter. In my 2004 paper, I traced the sound variation of ??var > ??v?r in different regions of Tamil Nadu over time. BhP?s use of an equivalent of ??v?r rather than ??v?r suggests that the form ??v?r had not been accepted as the standard form by the Vai??ava tradition at that time. Interestingly, N?tamu?i who is supposed to have compiled the ??v?r (later ??v?r) poems uses the form ??v?r in his solitary stanza in praise of Maturakavi. By the beginning of the 11th century, the form ??v?r has come to dominate in the inscriptions at ?r?ra?gam temple, which was the most important temple for ?r?vai??avism. This means that BhP (or at least this part of it) must have been composed before the end of the 10th century, if the inscriptional use also reflects the understanding of the Vai??ava community. Clear evidence of the form ??var occurs in the 12th century. It will be interesting if terms synonymous with ??vara are found in Sanskrit texts produced by persons like Yamunac?rya to refer to devotees. 
Dennis Hudson?s argument that since the panels in the Vaiku??apperum?? temple depict the episodes in the same order as BhP, BhP must have existed prior to the time of the temple (8th century) is not really valid. Vasudha Narayanan has shown that the sculptural evidence of V?li churning the ocean of milk (not in the V?lm?ki R?m?ya?a) occurs in Pattadakal in the 8th century well before being mentioned in any literary text in south India.
Regards,
Palaniappan
