[INDOLOGY] Sanskrit literature in numbers
Some remarks in addition to Camillo?s reflections seem necessary,
since there are further reasons ?to be baffled by the fact that it seems
very difficult to get reliable quantitative data to start with?.
After all, his assertion (given with reference to ?estimates of the number
of South Asian manuscripts?) that ?numbers again are simply telling us
?in an unreliable way?how many books have survived, not how many works
were composed? is unfortunately not quite adequate;
and if rectified by saying at least ?in an extremely unreliable way?, as is
unavoidable
to do for someone familiar with collections of Sanskrit manuscripts, there
is still this
lingering implicit assumption that a manuscript may be equated with a
work/book
that needs to be radically discarded.
Not only do we all as Sanskrit scholars know that the production of a
critical edition
of a single work usually is based on a number of available manuscripts that
in fact,
depending on the work to be edited, may greatly vary from just a few to
dozens (& more),
but taking just a look at the *New Catalogus Catalogorum* immediately
reveals an
enormous variation regarding the proportion that exists between a given
work and
the amount of manuscripts transmitting it.
As to the notion of a ?manuscript? hereby, in lucky cases the given MS is
complete.
Frequently, however, if not most frequently (another uncertain proportion),
it is fragmentary.
Yet, of course, also fragmentary MSS (be it even one consisting in a single
folio or less)
must be principally regarded as being able to provide valid manuscript
evidence,
supportive readings and, as the case may be, crucial textual variants,
insights into the given textual transmission, etc.
On the other hand, huge texts, the more so when provided with a commentary,
cannot be comprised by single manuscripts, even when complete.
Presently engaged in describing a so-called *Pa??it Collection*
(acquired by the Royal Library/Det Kongelige Bibliotek, Copenhagen, in
1924),
I recall, just to give an example, that each of the 12 books (*skandha*)
of the *Bh?gavatapur??a* with ?r?dhara?s commentary *Bh?v?rthad?pik?*
conveniently amounted to a separate manuscript.
Yet again, a given MS may likewise, easily in the case of *stotra*s,
various kinds of
ritual texts (and other textual genres), contain many more than just a
single work.
Neither should it be felt as particularly surprising when discovering that
what at some time had been assembled (and put into an envelope), say, by an
owner
of a Sanskrit collection as if consisting in a single MS turns out, on
closer inspection,
to actually consist in numerous fragments of altogether heterogeneous
character
(in terms of textual sources, scribes, material quality, etc.).
Furthermore, to address the problem of quantification from yet another
perspective,
not all the MSS contained in a given collection (like the mentioned *Pa??it
Collection*)
may a priori be counted as philologically ? implying philology to be a
methodologically
strict science untouched by either traditional naiveness or pretentious
instances of
post-modern clownery ? valid documents with justified claims of pertinently
representing
a given work: the numerous cases of orthographically somewhat uneducated
scribes apart,
a not all too great, but an uncertain (if tiny) percentage of MSS simply
represents
the work ? throwing tangible light on the sociological aspects of textual
transmission ?
consisting in the more or less clumsy writing exercises by pupils
(typically found
in the areas of both *?ruti* and *sm?ti*).
In other words, given also the published version of the hopefully ongoing
project of
the *New Catalogus Catalogorum* has (even with the future conclusion of the
letter *h*)
to be characterized as being, though already advanced, still only a
preliminary assessment
of what has survived, it seems quite important, when assessing the amount of
pre-modern works in Sanskrit, to be aware of the fact that the relevant
notion
of ?manuscript? itself is considerably complex (on the empirical level of
what is
actually found in Sanskrit collections), thus turning the correlation
between MSS
and proper works into an highly problematic issue, if taken as a basis for
quantitative
estimates of the literary cultures expressed in the medium of that language.
Best wishes,
Hartmut
Hartmut Buescher, PhD,
Research Librarian
The Royal Danish Library, Copenhagen
(Det Kongelige Bibiliotek)
[http://www.kb.dk/en/index.html]
On Thu, Apr 20, 2017 at 12:16 PM, Camillo Formigatti via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
