From lavanyavemsani at gmail.com  Tue May 30 18:18:28 2017
From: lavanyavemsani at gmail.com (Lavanya Vemsani)
Date: Tue, 30 May 17 14:18:28 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] CFP: American Journal of Indic Studies
Message-ID: <FD216C74-9A63-46F7-A998-BC0A5DD21DFF@gmail.com>


Hello All, 
I am happy to share the Call for Papers of our new journal, American Journal of Indic Studies. Please see below.
Thank you. 
Lavanya 



 
Call for papers
American Journal of Indic Studies
                       ISSN 2573-2145 (Print)           ISSN 2573-1939 (Online) 
Submissions open for the Inaugural Issue Volume 1 No 1
 
American Journal of Indic Studies (AJIS) is a peer-reviewed journal published by the American Academy of Indic Studies (AAIS). 
 
AJIS invites academic papers on all aspects of Indic studies broadly defined for publication in Volume 1 Number 1 and its subsequent issues. AJIS publishes papers that call attention to the meanings and applications of Indic categories, which have typically been under-represented in the academic study of Indic civilization. AJIS invites papers that analyze specific theoretical and methodological issues within Indic studies across academic disciplines. AJIS also welcomes papers that place Indic categories and explanatory models in conversation with western theoretical and methodological models in order to deepen and expand scholarly knowledge of Indic civilization. Interactions and relationships of western and non-western studies on contemporary and classical Indic civilization are also considered for publication. 
 
Papers on all aspects of Indic Studies, and their interdisciplinary studies in all of the disciplines of Humanities, Social Sciences, Education, Public Affairs, and other Interdisciplinary areas including (but not limited to) Anthropology, Archaeology, Diaspora Studies, Ethical Thought, Ecological & Environmental Studies, History & Culture, Human Geography, India-America relations, Indic Elements & Hindu-Buddhist relations in Asia, Language & Linguistics, Media Studies, Philosophy, Politics & Public Administration, Religious Studies, Social Work, Sociology, and Gender Studies will be considered for publication.
 
American Journal of Indic Studies publishes original papers, reflection papers, theoretical & conceptual frameworks, analytical & empirical research, applied research & field notes, and book & film reviews.
 
Date of Publishing: AJIS is inviting papers for Vol. 1 No. 1 scheduled to be published in Winter 2018.
 
Submission deadline: August 28, 2017.
 
Contributions for subsequent volumes will be accepted on a rolling basis and considered on a first-come-first-serve basis for the next available upcoming volume. Please include brief bio with your submission. Send your manuscript and questions to the editor Dr. Lavanya Vemsani at: editor at AAIndicStudies.org
 
Dr. Lavanya Vemsani
Editor-in-Chief, American Journal of Indic Studies
Professor, Department of Social Sciences, Shawnee State University

 





-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170530/f40143be/attachment.htm>

