Franco, Eli (Leipzig University): On the Arising of Philosophical Theories From Spiritual Practice
Woo, Jeson (Dongguk University): On Dharmaph?la?s Caturbh?ga Theory
Yao, Zhihua (The Chinese University of Hong Kong): Self-emptiness versus Other-emptiness: A Madhyamaka-Yog?c?ra Debate
Park, Jin Y. (American University): Yog?c?ra, Chan, and the Paradox of the Mind
Bayer, Achim (Kanazawa Seiryo University): Cittam?tra and Dependent Origination: As Treated in the Abhidharmasamuccaya, Candrak?riti?s Madhyamaka-avat?ra and the Venerable Seongcheol?s Sermon of a Hundred Days
Keng, Ching (National Chengchi University, Taiwan): W?nch??k as a Traditionalist Yog?c?ra Thinker
Panel 44:
Zones of Contact: Facets of Buddhist Interactions in Eastern Central Asia During the 9th-14th Centuries
(Wed., Aug. 23rd, 14:00-17:30)
Meinert, Carmen (Ruhr-Universit?t Bochum): Buddhist Localisations in Pre-modern Eastern Central Asia within a Transcultural Buddhist Network
Kasai, Yukiyo (Ruhr-Universit?t Bochum): The Old Uyghur Abhidharma Texts Containing Br?hm? Elements
S?rensen, Henrik H. (Ruhr-Universit?t Bochum): A Padmap?ni Dh?ra??-Amulet from Dunhuang
Solonin, Kirill (Ruhr-Universit?t Bochum/Renmin University Beijing): Transmission of the Two Truths Theory in Tangut Buddhism
Weirong, Shen (Qinghua University Beijing): Yantra Yoga in the Tangut Xia Kingdom and Mongol-Yuan Dynasty
Turek, Maria (Universit?t Bonn): Formation of the Tibetan Kingdom of Nangchen as Zone of Contact
SECTIONS
Section 01:
Abhidharma Studies
(Thurs., Aug. 24th, 9:00-12:30)
Toleno, Robban (Columbia University): Theories of Nourishment in Premodern Chinese Buddhist Encyclopedias and the Limits of Consilience
Hanner, Oren (Universit?t Hamburg): An Abhidharmic View on the Relation between Agents and Actions Based on the Abhidharmako?abh??ya of Vasubandhu
Yi, Kyoowan (Seoul National University): The Theories of Buddhist Atomism- the Ultimate or the Conventional?
Lin, Qian (University of California Berkeley): What Is a Buddhist School? A Case Study of Harivarman and His Chengshi Lun
Pan, Tao (Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit?t): Tocharian Abhidharma Texts in Murtuq ? A Preliminary Survey
Rheingans, Jim (Universit?t Bonn): Structuring a World View or Reproducing Knowledge? A Brief Survey of the Tibetan Abhidharmako?a Commentarial Literature
(Fri., Aug. 25th, 16:00-17:30)
Kaji, Tetsuya (Otani University): On the Groupings of Kle?a in the Sarv?stiv?da School
Smith, Sean (University of Toronto): The Dynamics of the Subliminal Mind in Therav?da Buddhism: Two Readings of the Bhava?ga Citta
Section 02:
Buddhism and Its Relation to Other Religions
(Mon., Aug. 21st, 9:00-15:30)
Jenkins, Stephen (Humboldt State University): Debate, Magic, and Massacre: The High Stakes and Ethical Dynamics of Battling Slanderers of the Dharma in Indian Narrative and Ethical Theory
Jones, Chris (University of Oxford): The T?rthika in Mah?y?na Buddhism
Neri, Chiara (University La Sapienza of Rome)
Pontillo, Tiziana (University of Cagliari): A philological approach to comparative religious studies: the case of yogakkhema/yogak?ema in Therav?da Buddhism and Brahmanism
Osto, Douglas (Massey University): No-Self in S??khya: A Comparative Look at Classical S??khya and Therav?da Buddhism
Qvarnstr?m, Olle (Lund University): Bh?viveka on S??khya
Wrona, Alexander (University of Vienna): Buddhism in Arab States: The case of Sri Lankan Therav?da Buddhists
Son, Jewongwan (Dongguk University): Dual Structure of Funeral Rites in the Southern Song Period
Welter, Albert (University of Arizona): Literati Monks as Buddhist Junzi (?Confucian? Gentleman): Buddhist Administrators in the Chinese Context
Section 03:
Buddhism and Medicine
(Mon., Aug. 21st, 14:00-15:30)
Bright, Jennifer (University of Toronto): A Tibetan Buddhist Scientist: Gendun Ch?phel in Contemporary Tibetan Medical Literature
Lin, Hsin-Yi (Columbia University): Treating Childbirth in Dharmic Medicine: Buddhist healing resources for reproduction in Medieval China
Sik, Hin-Tak (University of Hong Kong): Diseases and Treatments in the Chapter on Medicine in the Vinaya Pi?akas
Section 04:
Buddhism and Society
(Tue, Aug. 22nd, 9:00-15:30)
Lai, Rongdao (University of Southern California): Becoming Bodhisattva Citizens: Buddhist Citizenship Discourse in Republican China
Lu, Lianghao (University of Pittsburgh): Creating a Dharma Market: Advertisements in Buddhist Periodicals in Early 20th Century Shanghai
Xing, Guang (University of Hong Kong): A Study of Qisong?s Xiaolun (Treatise on Filial Piety)
Kobbun, Pisit (Ubon Ratchathani University): Buddhist Art and Politics: A Case Study of Paintings along the Mekong
Kawanami, Hiroko (Lancaster University): M?pyar Gaing: a case study of a heterodox sect in modern Myanmar
Chakravarti, Ranabir (Jawaharlal Nehru University): Negation of the Varna-Jati System: Gleanings from the Sardulakarnavadanam
Lele, Amod (Boston University): Disengaged Buddhism: The rejection of activism in classical South Asia
Haderer, Elisabeth (Universit?t Hamburg): Tibetan Buddhist Art Goes Global ? The Evolution of a New Western Buddhist Art Tradition in the 21st Century
Richard, Fr?d?ric (Universit? de Lausanne): Buddhism and the ?secularized? Tibetan government in exile
Section 05:
Buddhist Art and Architecture
(Wed., Aug. 23rd, 9:00-17:30)
Bruneau, Laurianne (Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes): Archaeology of Ladakh: new data for the history of Buddhism in the Western Himalayas
Pakhoutova, Elena (Rubin Museum of Art): Popular visual narratives in Buddhist practices within Nepalese and Tibetan traditions
Seegers, Eva (Universit?t Hamburg): The Decoration and Iconographic Program of selected St?pas in Eastern Tibet after 1959
Anderl, Christoph (Ghent University): The Development of M?ra Iconography in China: Continuities and Transformations
Bieberly, Rebecca (Oakland University): Naturalistic Style, Natural Gesture: A study of Lingyan Temple?s Song-era Luohan Sculptures
Lin, Nancy (Vanderbilt University)
Chou, Weng-shing (Hunter College): Recalling the Past Lives of a Qing Ruler: An Album of the Qianlong Emperor's Previous Incarnations
Lin, Fan (Leiden University): Dimensions of Non-duality and Liminality: Visual Images of Vimalak?rti in Medieval China (500-1200)
Nakamura, Yuuka (Mukogawa Women's University): The Spatial Composition of Buddhist Temples in Central Asia, Part 2: The Transformation of Shrines
Tuzzeo, Daniel (Stanford University): To Steal the Sun and Moon: Notes on Cosmological Representation and Relationships Between Word and Image at Mogao
Hirama, Naoko (Taisho University): How to Make a Saint: Biographical Picture Scrolls in the Construction of H?nen?s Identity
Matsunami, Fuki (The Jodo Shu Research Institute): Arts of Japanese pure land Buddhism: The value of H?nen Sh?nin Gy?j?ezu
Saradum, Natpiya (Dhammachai International Research Institute): The Earliest Style of Buddhist St?pas in Thailand: A Study of the Evolution of the Buddhist St?pas of the Dv?ravat? Period
(Fri., Aug. 25th, 9:00-10:30)
Karetzky, Patricia (Bard College): The Bronze Buddhist Sculptures of Nagapattinam
Li, Charles (University of Cambridge): The Mystery of the Monkey's Head: Architecture, Grief, and the Lexicographer's Imaginary
Schmidt, Carolyn (The Ohio State University): The Tri??la or Nandy?varta Motif in South Asian Buddhist Art and Culture: New Insights into the History of its Origins, Transmission, Values and Names
Section 06:
Buddhist Hermeneutics, Scholasticism, and Commentarial Techniques
(Thurs., Aug. 24th, 9:00-12:30)
Mathes, Klaus-Dieter (University of Vienna): Karma bKa? brgyud gZhan stong (?Empti[ness] of Other?) in the Works of the Third, Seventh and Eighth Karma pa
Brambilla, Filippo (University of Vienna): The path of preparation in the Jo nang tradition. Tshogs gnyis rgya mtsho on the views of Nya dbon kun dga? dpal and T? ra n? tha.
Draszczyk, Martina (University of Vienna): A Glimpse into Mi bskyod rdo rje?s "Commentary on the Direct Introduction to the Three K?yas"
Higgins, David (University of Vienna): Rong zom pa and Mi bskyod rdo rje on the Unity of the Two Truths from a Nonfoundationalist (Aprati??h?na) Madhyamaka Standpoint
Gentry, James (Kathmandu University): Historiographical Skepticism in Seventeenth-Century Tibet: Sog bzlog pa Blo gros rgyal mtshan?s Text-critical Biography of Master Padmasambhava
Kantor, Hans (Huafan University): ?Root and Traces? (benji??) in the exegetical traditions of Chinese Madhyamaka Thought
(Fri., Aug. 25th, 9:00-15:30)
Keerthi Goigoda Gamage, Aruna (University of London): Is Nibb?na Different from Arahantship? A Study of the Doctrinal Controversy between Mah?vih?rins and Vita??av?dins Reflected in the P?li Commentaries
Kramer, Jowita (University of Munich): Sthiramati as a Commentator of Mah?y?na S?tras: A Comparative Investigation of the Ak?ayamatinirde?a??k? and the K??yapaparivarta??k?
Ueno, Makio (Otani University): Word by Word: Commentarial Techniques in Vasubandhu's Vy?khy?yukti
Blum, Mark (University of California, Berkeley): The Formation of Nianfo in Chinese Buddhism
Shi, Guo Cheen (The Compassion Network & Buddhist Center): A Response and Recommendations?Translating Chengguan's Commentaries to the Avata?saka Sutra
Lee, Sangyop (Stanford University): Lushan Huiyuan and the Soteriology of the Soul in Early Chinese Buddhism
Apple, James (University of Calgary): Ati?a and Ratn?kara??nti as Philosophical Opponents with attention to Yukti?a??ik?, verse 34.
Kawamura, Y?to (Kyoto University): A Fresh Approach to A???dhy?y? 2.4.4: adhvaryukratur anapu?sakam Presented by the Buddhist Grammarian ?ara?adeva.
Beckwith, Christopher I. (Indiana University): How did the Chinese actually first hear and transcribe Buddhist terms? The two kinds of Late Old Chinese transcriptions and their significance
Section 07:
Buddhist Literature
(Mon., Aug. 21st, 9:00-15:30)
Wu, Hongyu (Ohio Northern University): Sword and Lotus: The Buddhist Life of a Woman Warrior in the Late Ming Dynasty (1368-1644)
Stepien, Rafal (University of Oxford): Chinese Buddhist Literature, Literary Theory, and Philosophy of Language: A Study of Liu Xie & Chan
Ponampon, Phra Kiattisak (SOAS, University of London): Yi xin guan qi: Visualization Meditation in Early Chinese Buddhist Texts during the 5th Century
Yagi, Toru (Osaka Gakuin University): A note on the Saundarananda 3.32d
Byrne, Christopher (Queen's University): Re-Thinking ?K?an? Literature as Poetry: Songgu Composition during the Song Dynasty
Tzohar, Roy (Tel Aviv University): In the eye of the beholder: Ways of Seeing in A?vagho?a's Buddhacarita?
Daribazaron, Darima (Buryat State University): Buryat annotations on Lamrim
Mochizuki, Kaie (Minobusan University): A Commentary on the Lotus sutra translated from Chinese into Tibetan
Sirisawad, Natchapol (Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit?t): Comparative Studies of the Quotations in ?amathadeva's Abhidharmako?op?yik?-??k? Parallel to the Mah?pr?tih?ryas?tra in the Tibetan translation of the M?lasarv?stiv?da-vinaya and the Pr?tih?ryas?tra in the Divy?vad?na
Section 08:
Buddhist Places
(Mon., Aug. 21st, 9:00-12:30)
Coura, Gabriele (TU Dresden and University of Vienna): A Buddhist Place of Education: dPal spungs Monastery from the 18th to the Early 20th Century
Namgyal, Tsetan (Jawaharlal Nehru University): Lineage and linkages of Buddhism in Indian Trans-Himalaya region?A case study of affiliation between Stag na Lho Druk Monastery of Ladakh and Bhutan?s Drup pa tradition
Wiles, Royce (Nan Tien Institute)
Ditrich, Tamara (University of Sydney)
Clark, Chris (University of Sydney): Research on the Kuthodaw Pagoda marble-stelae recension of the P?li canon in Mandalay, Myanmar
Ouyang, Nan (The University of Arizona): To Localize a Bodhisattva in Late Imperial China: K?itigarbha, Moutain Jiuhua and Their Associations in Precious Scrolls (baojuan ??)
Wenzel, Claudia (Heidelberger Akademie der Wissenschaften): Buddhist Places Evoking Praj??p?ramit?: Chinese Stone Sutra Inscriptions of the Northern Qi in Shandong
Winfield, Pamela (Elon University): Building Materials and Bodhi Mind at Eiheiji Temple, Japan
Section 09:
Contemporary Buddhism
(Fri., Aug. 25th, 9:00-12:30)
Meister, Kelly (University of Chicago): Righteous and Nefarious Uses of Buddhist Power within a Material Nodal Network at Wat Phra Mah?th?tworamah?wih?n (Nakhon Si Thammarat, Thailand)
Kawamoto, Kanae (Japan Society for the Promotion of Science): Love Incessantly Flows: Mae Naak, A New Asian Opera Heroine Born out of a Thai Buddhist Narrative
Zoric, Snjezana (Hankuk University of Foreign Studies): Transformation of Ritual into the Theatrical Heritage Performance ? a Korean Case
Clayton, Barbra (Mount Allison University): ?The Development of Bhutanese Buddhism: GNH, Nationalism, and Buddhist Modernism?
Th?voz, Samuel (The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation Program in Buddhist Studies): The Making of a Modern Buddha: Global Buddhism and Theater
Section 10:
Early Buddhism
(Mon., Aug. 21st, 14:00-17:30)
Maes, Claire (University of Texas at Austin): Early Buddhists and their Jain Ascetic other, an Examination
Kong, Man-Shik (King's College, London): The way which flavour of and quantity of food are dealt with in Early Buddhism
Li, Channa (Leiden University): The Sixth Arhat and Multiple Buddhas: The Ambiguity of Arhatship and Buddhahood Found in the Early Buddhist Texts
Levman, Bryan (University of Toronto): Language Theory, Phonology, and Etymology in Buddhism
Gruszewska, Joanna (Jagiellonian University): Pu?n??s Verses (Ther?g?th? 236-251) in the light of Buddhist criticism of Brahmins in Early Buddhist Literature
Polak, Grzegorz (Maria Curie-Sklodowska University): Can the ?end of the world? be reached by means of jh?na? A reexamination of the role and place of sa??? in early Buddhist jh?na meditation
Section 11:
Epistemology and Logic in Buddhism
(Mon., Aug. 21st, 9:00-17:30)
Hayashi, Itsuki (Columbia University): Rebirth versus Epiphenomenalism: Buddhist Theory of Ontological Dependence and Persistence
Nowakowski, David (Union College): The Isomorphism of Time and Space in Buddhist Arguments for Momentariness
Sakai, Masamichi (Kansai University): On the Time-Gap Problem in the Buddhist Theory of Momentariness
Shida, Taisei (University of Tsukuba): The Non-Comparative Type of pratyabhij??[na] Referred to by ??likan?tha
Siderits, Mark (Seoul National University): Buddhism Naturalized?
Watson, Alex (Ashoka University): Does perception support or refute the Buddhist doctrine of momentariness?
Forman, Jed (University of California, Santa Barbara): Pus, Blood, and Falling Hairs: Polemical Debates on Valid Perception
Hugon, Pascale (Austrian Academy of Sciences): Are there any real universals in the epistemological works of Phya pa Chos kyi seng ge (1109?1169)? On the source of the moderate realist perspective on universals in the Tibetan tradition
Kellner, Birgit (Austrian Academy of Sciences): How to read Dharmak?rti?s sa?vedana-inference
Nishizawa, Fumihito (Otani University): On the Origin of Non-valid Cognitions (apram??a/tshad min gyi blo)
Saccone, Margherita Serena (IKGA, Austrian Academy of Sciences): Of Authoritativeness and Perception, the Sarvaj?asiddhik?rik? by ?ubhagupta
(Tue, Aug. 22nd, 9:00-12:30)
Stoltz, Jonathan (University of St. Thomas): The Scope and Unity of ?Mistaken Cognition? in the Epistemology of Phya pa Chos kyi seng ge
Zamorski, Jakub (Jagiellonian University): What Remained of Pram??a Theory in China? ?Direct perception? and ?Inference? in the Works of Early Modern Chinese Buddhists
Lo, King Chung (University of Leipzig): Pr?sa?gika M?dhyamika?s Refutation of Self-awareness
Vose, Kevin (College of William and Mary): When Did Svatantra Gain its Autonomy? An Investigation into the Indian Sources of a Tibetan Claim
Westerhoff, Jan (University of Oxford): Madhyamaka and philosophy of language
(Fri., Aug. 25th, 14:00-15:30)
Matsuoka, Hiroko (Universit?t Leipzig): Vin?tadeva, Dharmottara, Kamala??la and Yam?ri on the Initial Statement (?div?kya) of a ??stra
MacKenzie, Matthew (Colorado State University): Dual-Aspect Reflexivism in ??ntarak?ita?s Philosophy of Mind
Prets, Ernst (Austrian Academy of Sciences): ??ntarak?ita and the Naiy?yikas. On the references to ?fragments? of the so-called ?lost Naiy?yikas? in the V?dany?ya??k? and the Tattvasa?graha.
Section 12:
Information Technologies in Buddhist Studies
(Mon., Aug. 21st, 14:00-17:30)
Hackett, Paul (Columbia University): Experiments with E-text: On the Oral Commentary Embedded in the Tibetan Canon
Lugli, Ligeia (Mangalam Research Center/King's College London/UC Berkeley): Corpus methods for Buddhist Sanskrit lexicography
McCrabb, Ian (University of Sydney): Visualization and Pattern Analysis of Formulae in Gandh?ran Relic Inscriptions
Nagasaki, Kiyonori (International Institute for Digital Humanities): Possibilities of SAT Taish?z? Image DB through IIIF
Section 13:
Mah?y?na Buddhism
(Tue, Aug. 22nd, 14:00-17:30)
Ahn, Sungdoo (Seoul National University): Param?rtha?s Concept of *Amalavij??na and Tath?gatagarbha
Saito, Akira (International College for Postgraduate Buddhist Studies): Buddha-Nature or Buddha Within?: Revisiting the Meaning of tath?gata-garbha
Nelson, Barbara (Australian National University): K??ntip?ramit? in the works of ??ntideva
Kosaka, Arihiro (University of Tsukuba): The Reading of ?ubh??ubhavipary?s?? in the twenty-third Chapter of the M?lamadhyamakak?rik? with a Special Focus on Candrak?rti?s Interpretation
MacDonald, Anne (Austrian Academy of Sciences): Homing in on Candrak?rti: The Sanskrit Madhyamak?vat?rabh??ya
Kanno, Hiroshi (Soka University): Jizang?s View of the Nirv??a S?tra: Focusing on the Niepan jing youyi
(Wed., Aug. 23rd, 9:00-12:30)
Buckelew, Kevin (Columbia University): How Chan Masters Became ?Great Men?: Masculinity and the Aesthetics of Heroism in Middle-Period Chinese Buddhism
Jones, Charles (The Catholic University of America): What is the Chinese Pure Land Tradition?
Yasui, Mitsuhiro (Taisho University, Research Institute of Chisan Shingon): Some remarks on the Akutobhay? and the Zhong lun
Denis, Diane (Laval University): Looking for the notion of trilak?ana in the Dharmadharmat?vibh?ga and k?rik?
Nemoto, Hiroshi (Hiroshima University): Tsong kha pa on Dependent Origination and Emptiness
Shi (Lee), Fazhao (Hsu-Feng) (Sydney University): The Tibetan udd?na in the ?ar?r?rthag?th?
Section 14:
Mah?y?na S?tras
(Wed., Aug. 23rd, 16:00-17:30)
Jin, Tao (Illinois Wesleyan University): The Role of the Fa-yi Structure in the Organization of Qixinlun
Xiao, Yue (The Research Institute of Bukkyo University): The vows of Amit?bha in the Larger Sukh?vat?vy?ha and the Karu??pu??ar?ka
Yamabe, Nobuyoshi (Waseda University): The Nine Similes of Tath?gatagarbha in Tath?gatagarbha-s?tra and the Six Similes of Buddh?nusm?ti in Guanfo sanmei hai jing
(Thurs., Aug. 24th, 9:00-12:30)
Boucher, Daniel (Cornell University): Are Mah?y?na S?tras Forgeries?
Drewes, David (University of Manitoba): How Mahayanists Became Bodhisattvas
Zhao, Wen (Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit?t): The composition of the Sad?prarudita story in the A??as?hasrik? Praj??p?ramit? based on the Pratyutpanna Sa?mukh?vasthita Sam?dhi S?tra: the basic structure and the metaphors
Nishi, Yasutomo (Chuo Academic Research Institute): Research on kr???panaka- / kr??anaka in the Saddharmapu??ar?ka
Barber, A.W. (University of Calgary): ??nyat?-vik?ipta in Tath?gatagarbha S?tra Literature
Bogacz, Szymon (Jagiellonian University): The Relation Between the Conventional and the Ultimate in Early Mah?y?na Sutras and in N?g?rjuna?s Madhyamaka
Section 15:
Manuscripts, Codicology, and Epigraphy
(Tue, Aug. 22nd, 14:00-17:30)
Long, Darui (University of the West): A Study on the Colophons of Donors of Rock-Cut Buddhist Scriptures in Fangshan in the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644)
Miyazaki, Tensho (Otani University): Relations among Old Japanese Manuscripts of Buddhist Scriptures and Woodblock-Printed Buddhist Canons: With Reference to the Puchao Sanmei Jing ?????
Nam, Dongsin (Seoul National University): The Sound of Great Enlightenment: the Divine Bell of King Seongdeok of Silla and its Inscription
Chen, Ruixuan (Leiden University): The Cult of the Sixteen Arhats: New Studies on the Nandimitr?vad?na
Kirichenko, Alexey (Moscow State University): The Role of Medium in History-Writing and the Construction of Identity of the Hnget-pit-taung Monastery, Burma
Acri, Andrea (EPHE): The cult of Hevajra in Southeast Asia, 10th-13th century
(Wed., Aug. 23rd, 14:00-17:30)
Delhey, Martin (Universit?t Hamburg): The ?Vanaratna Codex?: A Unique Witness of Indian, Nepalese and Tibetan Buddhism
Hori, Shin?ichiro (International College for Postgraduate Buddhist Studies): Buddhism in 15th-Century Eastern India: Sanskrit Manuscript Evidence and Tibetan Sources
Ogihara, Hirotoshi (The Hakubi Center for Advanced Research, Kyoto University): Names of thousand Buddhas in the Khotanese Bhadrakalpikas?tra?In comparison with Kuchean captions in Kumtura grottoes?
Lee, Youngjin (Geumgang Center for Buddhist Studies): The Oldest Nepalese Manuscript of the Da?abh?mikas?tram?focusing on its interpolations
Milligan, Matthew (Georgia College & State University): Text and Epigraph, King and Monk: Comparing and Contrasting Patronage in Early Indian Buddhism
Walter, Mariko (ACANSRS): Greek Buddhists revisited: Early religious contacts in Greco-Bactria and Indo-Greek Kingdoms according to donor inscriptions
Section 16:
Tantric Buddhism
(Wed., Aug. 23rd, 9:00-15:30)
Deroche, Marc-Henri (Kyoto University): The Aspiration of S?tra-s and Tantra-s by Praj??ra?mi (Tibet, 1518-1584): A Living Illustration of the Link between Theory and Praxis
Bentor, Yael (The Hebrew University of Jerusalem): Awakening in the Present Body
Wenta, Aleksandra (Oxford University): The Making of Tantric Orthodoxy in the Eleventh Century Indo-Tibetan World: J??n?kara?s Mantr?vat?ra
Nagasawa, Jake (University of California, Santa Barbara): A Kadampa?s Defense of the Guhyagarbha Tantra: On Chomden Rigp? Reldri?s (Bcom ldan rig pa?i ral gri) An Ornamental Flower for the Proof of the Guhyagarbha (Gsang snying sgrub pa rgyan gyi me tog)
Hammar, Urban (Stockholm university): Chag lo tsa ba III Rin chen rnam rgyal (15th century) on the History of Kalacakra in Tibet.
Payne, Richard (Institute of Buddhist Studies, Berkeley): Tendai Homa: Ritual Change and Ritual Invariance
Kotyk, Jeffrey (Leiden University): Sources of Japanese Buddhist Astrology
Section 17:
Therav?da Buddhism
(Wed., Aug. 23rd, 14:00-15:30)
Stewart, James (University of Tasmania): Revenge Literature in Contemporary Sinhala Buddhism
Revire, Nicolas (Thammasat University): ?In Times Yet to Come?: The Cult of the Five Buddhas and Ten Bodhisattas in mainland Southeast Asia
Scott, Tony (University of Toronto): Politics and Buddhist Commentary in Post/Colonial Burma/Myanmar: The Modern Milindapa?ha-a??hakath?
Section 18:
Vinaya Studies
(Fri., Aug. 25th, 14:00-17:30)
Dewey, William (University of California, Santa Barbara): The Tibetan Ganden Tripas and the Vinaya
Johnson, Anna (University of Michigan): Highland, Lowland, and Kashmiri: Historical Narrative and Identity Formation of Tibet?s Three Vinaya Lineages
Hu-von Hin?ber, Haiyan (Albert-Ludwig Universit?t Freiburg): What to do if the Vih??ra?sv??min is put in jail? A story from the K?udrakavastu of the M?lasarv?stiv?da-Vinaya
Wu, Juan (Tsinghua University): Parallel Stories in the Jaina ?va?yakac?r?i and the Buddhist M?lasarv?stiv?da Vinaya: A Preliminary Investigation
EVENING EVENTS
Roundtables
American Council of Learned Societies/The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation Centre for Buddhist Studies at the University of Toronto
(Mon., Aug. 21st, 17:30-19:00)
Hosted by Pauline Yu (President, ACLS American Council of Learned Societies) and Frances Garrett (Chair, The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation Centre for Buddhist Studies, University of Toronto)
Introducing the Fo Guang Buddhist Art Encyclopedia
(Tue, Aug. 22nd, 18:00-19:00)
Humanistic Buddhism in the Contemporary Age: Fo Guang Shan ??? at 50
(Tue, Aug. 22nd, 19:00-20:00)
Moderator: Jane Naomi Iwamura (University of the West)
Bukky? Dend? Ky?kai Fellowship Panel
(Wed, Aug. 23rd, 18:00-19:00)
Publishers Panel
(Tue, Aug. 22nd, 18:00-19:00)
Moderator: Nikko Odiseos (President, Shambala Publications)
Buddhist Studies in Canada
(Wed, Aug. 23rd, 18:00-20:00)
Organiser: Paul Crowe (Simon Fraser University; Editor In Chief, Canadian Journal of Buddhist Studies)
Workshop
Buddhist Universal Digital Archive
(Tue, Aug. 22nd, 18:00-20:00)
Moderator: Jeff Wallman (Executive Director, Tibetan Buddhist Resource Center)
Excursions:
To ensure you have a chance to visit Toronto and surrounding area, my team and I are preparing several excursions for you to enjoy on the afternoon of Thursday, August 24th. We are predicting to include:
?      Trip to Niagara Falls
?      Cruise on Lake Ontario
?      Behind the Scenes Tour of the Royal Ontario Museum
?      Bicycle Tour on Toronto Islands
?      Visit to the Fo Guang Shan Temple Mississauga
A confirmation of these options, details, including prices, booking options and schedule, will be made available on the Congress website in the coming weeks, along with information about other events happening in and around Toronto during the Congress, so please check regularly.
Website and Communications
My team and I will be continuously updating the Congress website with panel, paper, and evening event abstracts, announcements, travel information, and excursion options over the next few weeks and months, so please make sure to follow the website closely at: http://www.iabs2017-uoft.ca<http://www.iabs2017-uoft.ca/>.
Thank You
I wish to extend my gratitude to everyone for all their help in preparing for the XVIIIth IABS Congress. I am particularly grateful to our sponsors, The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation and the Fo Guang Shan Temple Mississauga. I am personally elated to be hosting everyone this summer, and hope that your own plans and preparations for the Congress go smoothly. Please feel free to write to me directly about any matter or concern, and may you all have a safe journey to Toronto.
Looking forward to welcoming and meeting you in Toronto, with warm regards,
Christoph Emmrich
Planning Committee of the XVIIIth IABS Congress
 President:
Anne MacDonald
 Chair:
Christoph Emmrich
 Members:
Wendi Adamek, University of Calgary
James Apple, University of Calgary
Dan Arnold, University of Chicago
James Benn, McMaster University
Lara Braitstein, McGill University
Chen Shen, Royal Ontario Museum
Jinhua Chen, University of British Columbia
Shayne Clarke, McMaster University
Deepali Dewan, Royal Ontario Museum
David Drewes, University of Manitoba
Frances Garrett, University of Toronto
Amanda Goodman, University of Toronto
Nam-Lin Hur, University of British Columbia
Chiara Letizia, Universit? de Qu?bec
Jessica Main, University of British Columbia
Jason Neelis, Wilfrid Laurier University
Mark Rowe, McMaster University
Alicia Turner, York University
Jeff Wilson, University of Waterloo
 Advisory Board:
Collett Cox, University of Washington
Birgit Kellner, University of Heidelberg
Ulrich Pagel, University of London
Tom Tillemans, University of Lausanne
 Academic Coordination:
Tony Scott, University of Toronto
Correspondent
Associate Professor Dr. Christoph Emmrich
Chair, Planning Committee of the XVIIIth IABS Congress
University of Toronto
Dept. for the Study of Religion
170 St. George Street
Toronto, Ontario M5R 2M8
Canada
E-mail: christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca
