[INDOLOGY] pre-lined mss.
Dear Peter Szanto,
to shortly respond, though as a part-time codicological practician rather
fascinated
by the ?anthropological? nature of manuscripts ? given (unlike any animal
could),
how mirror-like they embody the physical, semiotic and semantic dimensions
of *homo sapiens* with regard to the concern of transmitting cultural
intelligence.
After all, those Mah?y?na Buddhist manuscripts produced at P?la times you
referred to
do indeed likewise preserve semantic dimensions, with regard to which, when
attempting
a philosophical dialogue with them, historico-philological research alone
may easily get into
difficulties, be these admitted or not, to hermeneutically rise to an
appropriate level
of understanding.  Considering your issue of whether
the tangible increase of ?pre-lined mss.?
c. :
Without having immediate implications for the total variety of Indian
manuscript
production in that period, this corresponds at least to what we would expect
with regard to this particular type of Mah?y?na manuscripts (with the
textual fields
demarcated by vertical lines, especially, not exclusively, at the edges and
string holes,
often along with illuminations and other forms of ornamentation).
And with the well-known breakdown of the P?la-evolved underlying networks
and
organizational structures in support of specialized workshops for highly
skilled
manuscript production, a greater influx of professional specialists carrying
these skills into Nepal may be assumed around that time.
Including its bibliography, the recent publication in the series ?Wiener
Studien
zur Tibetologie und Buddhismuskunde? by Karen Weissenborn:
?Buchkunst aus N?land?. Die A??as?hasrik? Praj??p?ramit?-Handschrift
in der Royal Asiatic Society / London (Ms. Hodgson 1) und ihre Stellung
in der P?la-Buchmalerei des 11./12. Jahrhunderts?. Wien 2012 (WSTB No. 77)
(https://www.istb.univie.ac.at/cgi-bin/wstb/wstb.cgi?ID=
81&show_description=1)
may at least contextually contribute to provide you with relevant insights,
even while this period of manuscript production is being addressed
from a specific perspective.
Best wishes,
Hartmut Buescher
.
On Fri, May 12, 2017 at 11:58 AM, Walter Slaje via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
