[INDOLOGY] Patanjali in the Puranas?
Dear M?ns,
The paragraph originally comes from a book by Rev. William Ward, *A View of
the History, Literature, and Mythology, of the Hindoos*, second edition,
volume 1, p. 228 (Serampore: Mission Press, 1818). This fact indicates the
early and tentative nature of this information. One of the leading S??khya-Yoga
scholars of our time, the late Ram Shankar Bhattacharya, wrote a brief article
in which he reported his meager findings about Pata?jali in the pur??a
literature: "Patanjali, The Author of the Yogasutra," (*Journal of the Yoga
Institute*, Santa Cruz, India, vol. 27, no. 1, August 1981, pp. 178-180).
He makes no mention of the things found in the above-quoted paragraph. (Of
course, the Rudra-y?mala is a tantra rather than a pur??a.)
This paragraph entered William Judge's book in the following way. In 1889,
when Judge's book was published, there were only two complete English
translations of the *Yoga-sutra*. James Ballantyne had translated the first
two of its four books, published at Allahabad in 1852 and 1853. Govindadeva
Sastri translated the last two of its four books, published in *The Pandit*,
1868-1872. Tookaram Tatya then gathered these together and published them
for the Bombay Branch of the Theosophical Society in *The Yoga Philosophy*,
1882, with a 2nd revised edition in 1885. I have not seen the 1st ed., but
the 2nd ed. has an Introduction by Col. Olcott in which he writes, p. ii:
"A short sketch of the life of Patanjali is reproduced from 'A View of the
History, Literature, and Mythology of the Hindus,' by the late Rev. William
Ward of Serampore."
The paragraph in question is then found on p. xxxvii. William Judge
specifically says at the beginning of his Preface that his book is adapted
from the 1885 edition.
The other complete English translation of the *Yoga-sutra* then existing,
by the way, is that of Rajendralala Mitra, *The Yoga Aphorisms of Patanjali
with the Commentary of Bhoja Raja*, 1883.
Best regards,
David Reigle
Colorado, U.S.A.
On Sun, May 14, 2017 at 1:04 PM, M?ns Broo via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
