[INDOLOGY] A new Sanskrit Reader
Dear Antonia,
Congratulations on your initiative. I believe that important additions would be the inclusion
of some representative Buddhist and Jaina works, as well as samples of
philosophical writing. I'd be glad to help with suggestions in these areas should that
be useful at some point.
good luck!
Matthew
Matthew Kapstein
Directeur d'?tudes,
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes
Numata Visiting Professor of Buddhist Studies,
The University of Chicago
Sent: Monday, June 12, 2017 3:03 PM
[INDOLOGY] A new Sanskrit Reader
Dear all,
I just received a contract to write a new intermediate Sanskrit Reader -- a 21st-century Lanman, if you will. Its aims will be to help students apply and practice their grammar knowledge, increase their vocabulary and their reading stamina, and give them a taste of a broader variety of Sanskrit textual genres.
Each text extract will be up to about ten pages long and come with an introduction, as well as grammar and vocabulary notes on every page. Several members of this list have already very kindly made excellent suggestions for texts or text excerpts that they would like to see included in the Reader; but given the wonderful breadth and enormous collective experience of this list, I would like to ask all of you: are there any texts or even specific passages that you have always wished existed in a format suited for presentation to intermediate students?
The more broadly useful the Reader might prove to the members of our field who are involved in Sanskrit instruction, the better; so if you have any suggestions or ideas, I would love to hear them. I am of course very happy to give credit to anyone who shares their thoughts with me.
If you have any questions about how I am intending to structure the Reader, what I am so far planning to include etc, please don't hesitate to ask.
All the best,
   Antonia
A n t o n i a  R u p p e l
The Cambridge Introduction to Sanskrit
Out Now: www.cambridge-sanskrit.org<http://www.cambridge-sanskrit.org>
