[INDOLOGY] McGill University: Faculty Lecturer in Sanskrit (2-year position)
Dear Colleagues,
I am delighted to announce that McGill University, School of Religious Studies, invites applications for a Faculty Lecturer in Sanskrit Language and Literature.
This is a two-year, non-renewable position; the successful candidate will begin 1 September 2017.
Applicants should provide: a cover letter identifying teaching and research interests; Curriculum Vitae; three letters of recommendation to be sent under separate cover; a sample of scholarly writing (if applicable); and a teaching portfolio (if applicable).
Applications should be addressed to Professor Daniel Cere, Interim Director, School of Religious Studies, McGill University, through an online submission portal: [https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/9275]
The full advertisement is available below and here: https://www.mcgill.ca/religiousstudies/about/opportunities/faculty-lecturer
Please contact me (andrea.pinkney at mcgill.ca<mailto:andrea.pinkney at mcgill.ca>) for any queries regarding the position.
With best wishes,
Andrea
Andrea Marion Pinkney
Associate Professor, McGill University
Co-Chair, Religion in South Asia Steering Committee, American Academy of Religion
Faculty Lecturer in Sanskrit Language and Literature
The School of Religious Studies at McGill University invites applications for a Faculty Lecturer position in Sanskrit Language and Literature. Applicants with a Ph. D. in a relevant field are encouraged to apply; ABDs nearing completion will also be considered. Expertise in the Sanskrit language is required, and teaching experience in premodern South Asian language and literature is desirable. The term of appointment will be Sept 1, 2017 to April 30, 2018. Starting salary is CAD 55,000 per year
Under the supervision of the Director of the School of Religious Studies, the duties of the successful candidate will include:
  *   Teach Sanskrit at the elementary, intermediate, and advanced level
  *   Prepare syllabi, lesson plans, and teaching materials; prepare, administer, and grade classroom and home assignments and exams; and hold office hours
  *   Prepare teaching materials for assigned language and course-level for future use at the School of Religious Studies, in addition to the assigned teaching and preparation of materials
 Applicants should provide: a cover letter identifying teaching and research interests; Curriculum Vitae; three letters of recommendation to be sent under separate cover; a sample of scholarly writing (if applicable); and a teaching portfolio (if applicable). Applications should be addressed to the Prof. Daniel Cere, Interim Director, School of Religious Studies, McGill University, through an online submission portal: [https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/9275]
McGill University is committed to diversity and equity in employment. It welcomes applications from: women, Aboriginal persons, persons with disabilities, ethnic minorities, persons of minority sexual orientation or gender identity, visible minorities, and others who may contribute to diversification. "All qualified applicants are encouraged to apply; however, in accordance with Canadian immigration requirements, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.
The language of instruction at McGill is English, but a working knowledge of French is an asset. Review of applications will begin on 24 July 2017 and will continue until the position is filled.
Charg?(e) de cours - Langue et litt?rature sanskrites
L??cole d??tudes religieuses de l?Universit? McGill sollicite des candidatures pour un poste de charg?(e) de cours - langue et litt?rature sanskrites. Les titulaires d?un doctorat dans un domaine pertinent sont encourag?s ? poser leur candidature, de m?me que les ?tudiants ? qui il ne reste que la th?se ? d?poser. Une comp?tence en langue sanskrite est n?cessaire, et une exp?rience d?enseignement des langues et de la litt?rature pr?modernes d?Asie du Sud est souhaitable. La dur?e du mandat s??tend du 1er septembre 2017 au 30 avril 2018. Le salaire annuel ? l?embauche est de 55 000 CAD.
Sous la supervision du directeur de l??cole d??tudes religieuses, le candidat ou la candidate retenu(e) accomplira ces t?ches :
  *   Enseigner le sanskrit aux niveaux ?l?mentaire, interm?diaire et avanc?
  *   ?laborer le plan de cours d?taill?, le plan des le?ons et le mat?riel p?dagogique; pr?parer, administrer et ?valuer le travail en classe, les devoirs et les examens; accorder des heures de disponibilit?
  *   ?laborer du mat?riel p?dagogique suppl?mentaire pour la langue et les niveaux enseign?s pour usage ult?rieur par l??cole d??tudes religieuses;
 Les candidats doivent fournir : une lettre d?accompagnement qui pr?cise les domaines d?int?r?t pour l?enseignement et la recherche; un curriculum vit?; trois lettres de recommandation envoy?es sous pli s?par?; un ?chantillon de publication (le cas ?ch?ant) et un portfolio de leur exp?rience d?enseignement (le cas ?ch?ant). Les candidatures doivent ?tre adress?es au directeur par int?rim, Prof. Daniel Cere, ?cole d??tudes religieuses, Universit? McGill, et envoy?es par le biais du portail de soumission en ligne [https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/9275].
L'Universit? McGill souscrit ? la diversit? et ? l'?quit? en mati?re d'emploi. Elle accueille favorablement les demandes d'emploi: des femmes, des peuples Autochtones, des minorit?s ethniques, des personnes handicap?es, des personnes de toutes orientations et identit?s sexuelles, des minorit?s visibles, et d'autres personnes qui pourraient contribuer ? une plus grande diversit?.  "On encourage tous les candidats qualifi?s ? postuler; veuillez noter que conform?ment aux exigences de l'immigration canadienne, la priorit? sera toutefois accord?e aux Canadiens ainsi qu'aux r?sidents permanents.
 ? McGill, la langue d?enseignement est principalement l?anglais, mais une connaissance pratique du fran?ais est un atout. L'examen des candidatures commencera le 24 juillet 2017 et se poursuivra jusqu?? ce que le poste soit pourvu.
Andrea Marion Pinkney
Associate Professor, McGill University
Co-Chair, Religion in South Asia Steering Committee, American Academy of Religion
