[INDOLOGY] Ismail Jogi mantra
Dear Artur,
This is a slight corruption of a caupa? (16+16 matras). The correct reading
for the first diptych should be:
k?maru desa kamacch? dev? / jah?? basai isam??la jog?
At least this is the only reading that I have been able to find in any
source. (See Das, *Hind? ?abd S?gar*)
The other lines also suggest that they are taken from a caupa?, even though
the third line is hypermetrical and the last two are 15-matra variants of
the caupa? (which is allowed).
Nagaraj ji's reading is good, and I agree with him that in this context,
Ismail jogi would not be at all contradictio in adiecto. On Muslim yogic
adepts and such in Eastern India, Tony Stewart's articles are a good
source. Such local saint figures are common in the region, and combine
aspects of Islamic and Hindu charisma and occult powers.
Ismail Jogi and Lona Chamarin appear to both be part of a narrative
involving the enchantment of flowers that are then used to cause others to
fall in love. A quick internet search revealed popular spells that invoke
Ismail Jogi and his use of such flowers in mantras used to cause someone to
fall in love with you (i.e. with the person who uses the mantra to enchant
the flowers).
My reading:
O? namo | O? and obeisance
k?mr? des k?m?khy? dev? | In the Kamarup country of the goddess Kam?khy?
Tah?? base ism?il jog? | There dwelt Ismail the Yogi
Ism?il jogi ke t?n be?? | Ismail the Yogi had three sons
Ek to?e ek picho?e | One he plucked/tore, one he winnowed/plucked,
Ek ??t tij?r? go?e | One [was] fever(ish) in the womb.
Since this doesn't produce a consistent sense, let me suggest the
following: the mention of "??t tij?r?," specifically a type of fever that
is marked at its onset by chills, is the target of the spell, as Danuta has
suggested. However, the "three sons" is probably a confused reading,
because in other variants of the spell, Ismail Jogi plucks three or more
flowers and does different things with each. "ke t?n" is probably a corrupt
reading, and "be??" is probably "bai?h?" ("Ismail the Yogi sat"), which
comes at the end of the third line in other variants. In other words, the
wording of a spell used to catch a lover with flowers has been used in a
spell to ward of fever.
This is, however, conjecture at best. In case, the language is the
trans-regional *bh??? *of devotional texts in the North, that is often
referred to as Brajbhasha.
Best,
Tyler
On Sun, Jun 4, 2017 at 2:09 PM, Nagaraj Paturi via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
