A Reader of the kind we propose has two functions: one is to introduce
students to a variety of texts and textual genres; the other is to help
them build up reading stamina. Gaining such stamina can be a painful
process; and while there is much to be said for the ?proper? philological
approach (reading slowly and meticulously, with nothing but a dictionary
and a grammar for help, not going on to the next line or stanza until every
grammatical detail and its context have been fully understood), one can
actually acquire a very good understanding of the grammar of a language
(and a certain intuition for its literary styles!) by reading faster and
thus reading more. This latter option is possible whenever texts are
straightforward. Yet many interesting texts are not straightforward, and
for them, this Reader will offer more notes than would, strictly speaking,
be necessary. Irregularities will of course always be explained; but
especially in the first half of the book, regular phenomena that
nevertheless are potentially tricky will also be annotated: instances of
infrequently occurring sandhi and long chains of words connected in
writing; verbs taking their objects in cases other than the accusative, and
generally case usage that is non-intuitive for speakers of English; AblGen
Sg of i-, u- or ?-stems, instances of -ati or -anti that are not Pres 3rd
Sg or Pl, respectively, and other noun and verb forms difficult to
recognise; infrequent pronoun forms; and so on. For the very first
readings, we are considering following the Clay Sanskrit Library
conventions in not combining words in writing. In a nutshell: while the
readings are meant to be challenging, they should also be enjoyable.
Furthermore, it is not just the number and contents of annotations that
matter, but also their accessibility. Instead of making students constantly
leaf back and forth and/or keep their fingers in several places of the book
at the same time, the Reader will offer all crucial information ?
grammatical notes, key vocabulary ? on the page where it is needed. Thanks
to the better quality of Sanskrit fonts now available for print as well as
greater flexibility in book formats, the Reader should be able to keep
Lanman?s very legible font size and still combine text, annotations and
space for students? notes on one page.
 Finally, there will be an introduction to each text and a complete
vocabulary in the back. It would be ideal if the publisher provided the
possibility to store a file with the vocabulary (perhaps in a slightly
condensed layout) on their website, for students to print out and use
together with the book. (Again, the less leafing back-and-forth, the
better.) We would also like to look into the possibility of creating some
continuity between our textbook and this Reader (e.g. by giving brief,
systematic references to the chapters in which a grammatical phenomenon was
first introduced); but we are aware this may not be possible with two books
from different publishers.
On 14 June 2017 at 19:13, Dominik Wujastyk via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
A N T O N I A   R U P P E L
The Cambridge Introduction to Sanskrit
Out Now: www.cambridge-sanskrit.org
