[INDOLOGY] 24th conference of the European Association for South Asian Archaeology and Art (Naples, July 6-8, 2018)
Dear members of the list,
I forward to you a message from Anna Filigenzi concerning the call for papers for the 24th conference of the European Association for South Asian Archaeology and Art, to be held in Naples on July 2-6, 2018.?
Best wishes,
Florinda
Dear Colleagues,
We are very happy to announce that the 24th conference of the European Association for South Asian Archaeology and Art will take place in Naples, Italy, from 2nd?to 6th?July 2018. It will be hosted by the University of Naples ?L?Orientale? (UNO) and the International Association for Mediterranean and Oriental Studies (ISMEO) at the Monumental Complex ?S. Domenico Maggiore?.
Colleagues are invited to submit an abstract for a 20-minute conference presentation; or, alternatively, for a poster presentation. Abstracts should be of up to 350 words, in Word format (.doc, .docx, or .rtf format), so that they can be edited for publication if accepted.
Conference contributions should draw on current and unpublished research relating to the archaeology and art history of South Asia, from all periods. Topics from?neighbouring?regions will also be considered if they throw light on South Asian archaeology or art history. Submissions by PhD candidates should be accompanied by a letter of recommendation from their University, preferably from their Supervisor.
?The deadline is 20th?December 2017. Please send abstracts and any enquiries to?2018easaa at gmail.com.?Applications will be peer reviewed by a board of experts, and notification of decisions will be in the new year.
?Further details of the conference will be posted soon on the EASAA website,www.easaa.org, and on the UNO website,?http://easaa2018.unior.it
We thank you in advance for acknowledging receipt of this email. This will help us verify the accuracy of our email list.
With all best wishes,
?On behalf of the organising committee
Anna Filigenzi
?President, EASAA
Lecturer in Archaeology and art history of India, Department of Asian, African and Mediterranean Studies, University of Naples ?L?Orientale?
