[INDOLOGY] Starting a new academic journal
Dear Dominik,
There is of course an another 'old model' (perhaps older than the one involving for-profit enterprises against which you protest): that of an academic institution or learned society running its own scholarly journal and publishing it wholly independently or with only marginal involvement of any for-profit enterprise.
Some of our best and most venerable journals belong to this category. To name but five, from five different countries:
Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute
Bulletin de l'?cole fran?aise d'Extr?me-Orient
Journal of the American Oriental Society
Wiener Zeitschrift f?r die Kunde S?dasiens
Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenl?ndischen Gesellschaft
I personally prefer to support and publish in these kinds of journals, and have wondered why colleagues feel the need to create new journals if excellent old ones already exist, outside of the for-profit publishing framework.
Best wishes,
Arlo Griffiths
Sent: Tuesday, August 22, 2017 8:23 PM
[INDOLOGY] Starting a new academic journal
Dear colleagues,
New academic journals spring up with surprising frequency.  Indeed, I launched one<http://hssa-journal.org> myself.  I am surprised, however, to see how many of the journals relevant to Indology still function on what I think of as the "old model," and are run as for-profit enterprises by commercial companies like Springer, Elsevier, Brill and others, whose first duty is not to the growth of knowledge, but to their shareholders.
This problem of forked loyalty was starkly demonstrated this last week, when Cambridge University Press bowed to pressure from the Chinese Government, and voluntarily censored the content of its journal China Quarterly, withdrawing 300 articles that touched on topics sensitive to the PRC's communist government including the Tienanmen Square massacre and Tibet.  The reason given by the press was (in my words) that it was willing to sacrifice intellectual integrity for the purpose of continuing to sell the broad range of its products in the Chinese market.  The press has since changed its mind<http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2017/08/cambridge-university-press-posts-censored-articles-170822075543589.html> as a result of widespread incredulity and outrage from the academic establishment.  It might be uncharitable to view it this way, but one can't help thinking that CUP continues make decisions based on the bottom line, and has simply decided that it stands to lose more by alienating its domestic academic market than the Chinese one.
