[INDOLOGY] bhagwa dvaj
Dear Nagaraj,
It's a good question. Please let me try and explain.
I'm an anthropologist, primarily, who is interested in the politics of
imagination and the commodification of desire. I am using a dialogic
utopian method to explore what the world *could be* for various groups.
With that in mind, my remit is to suspend judgement and disbelief, and *try*
to privilege the emic perspective.
I focus on the global wellness industry, of which yoga and ayurveda are a
part. More specifically, I analyse the marketing rhetoric of the global
yoga industry. I do this to understand many things, however, one thing in
particular that I am increasingly interested in is the tacit links, via the
Sanskrit episteme, between the ethno-nationalism of the Indian state and
the desires of global yoga practitioners, which are overwhelmingly to apply
yoga, as a technology, to help re-enchant disenchanted worlds. It is
through the cultural capital of yoga and prestige of Sanskrit that hindutva
ideology is normalised and legitimised.
There are many ways in which global yoga practitioners come to unwittingly
support the banal nationalism of hindutva. Two principal ways are through
the soft hindutva of various yoga gurus,
<https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/the-soft-nationalism-of-amma-indias-hugging-saint/>
and the fantasies of people like David Frawley, Stephen Knapp and PN Oak.
This hindutva-inspired world view permeates to deep layers of global yoga.
Furthermore, the logic of the guru-disciple relationship relies on the
cultivation of affect. People are taught how to feel, and not to think
critically. This further creates opportunities for hindutva logic to be
infused into the guru's rhetoric, normalised, and consumed by the global
yoga practitioner.
Of course, all nations are metaphysical entities, and exist within social
imaginary landscapes. Are you suggesting that we should ignore the
fantasies of hindutvav?dins as mere pie in the sky machinations, and not
take them seriously? Or should we, instead, see them as earnest
post-colonial, counter-hegemonic assertions against the privilege of
Eurocentric perspectives?  While it seems unlikely that as Praveen Togadia
and others assert, that the world will become Hindu/Vedic by 2030-ish, and
that Sanskrit will replace English, these post-colonial assertions mean
something to the people saying them, especially when they are found not
only in the echo chambers of Hindu supremacists, but also within the global
imagination of yoga practitioners.
Therefore, how do these seemingly disparate worlds intersect? This is
particularly pertinent given that a seeming majority of global yoga
practitioners consider the legitimate yogic disposition to be apolitical,
which is another way in which the theo-politics of hindutva gains
popularity, simply because people do not want to think about yoga AND
politics, or that yoga might be involved in larger political operations.
My fieldwork amongst global yoga practitioners leads me to assert that
there are many who eagerly await a Vedic-inspired utopian ramrajya, but do
not, however, really understand the implications, as what we are more or
less discussing is the aspiration to create a global Vedic caliphate, which
is what Ramdev asserts is the only answer to stopping ISIS. These aren't
fringe fantasies, as the key note speakers who attended this conference
<http://www.vedicindiafoundation.org/speakers.html> attest.
Therefore, in a nutshell, this is why I give credence to such fantasies.
Best,
Patrick
On Aug 7, 2017 3:25 PM, "Nagaraj Paturi" <nagarajpaturi at gmail.com> wrote:
