[INDOLOGY] sex and gender
Dear Patrick,
The thread initiator Shyam-ji asked for discussions on the topic. The
replying persons are posting references to articles etc. Mine was one such
post.
Your response seems to necessitate a customary statement
 "The opinions expressed in the reference provided by the authors are
totally the opinions or ideas or findings  of the authors. They need not
necessarily be the opinions of the member providing the reference"
to be added to every such reference providing post, unless otherwise the
content of such a statement is taken for granted by the reading members as
is currently being done.
Prof. Bharat Gupt has never been my 'colleague' as you wrongly assume.
After stating that flawed assumption of you , you go on pouring your
statements with repeated YOU, YOU sentences taking all the sentences in the
report to which I provided reference as my sentences, my statements and my
opinions.
I don't think the ideas in the movie Lipstick are yours.
You provided a link to a critique of the film.
I did not provide any link to a critique of Prof. Gupt's piece. I need not.
Nevertheless, the ideas expressed in that piece need not necessarily be
mine.
The context is not our ideas on gender.
The topic is discussion of it in ancient Sanskrit sources.
The piece to which I directed, mentions such sources. The value of the
piece in the context of the present thread is only to that extent.
Prof. Gupt's own opinions may make a topic for a new thread.
The sources cited in the piece take the coverage in the references being
cited to the gender categories beyond male, female that are discussed in
all other references in the thread.
That is the point that deserves attention here.
On Thu, Aug 17, 2017 at 7:41 AM, patrick mccartney <psdmccartney at gmail.com>
wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
