[INDOLOGY] search for a tenure-track faculty position in Tamil Studies at UC Berkeley
Dear Colleagues,
please take note of the below search for a tenure-track faculty position in Tamil Studies at UC Berkeley, and kindly circulate this among potential candidates for the position.
With many thanks,
Alexander von Rospatt
(Professor and acting Chair of the Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies, University of California, Berkeley)
The Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies, University of California, Berkeley, has been authorized to fill a tenure-track faculty position in Tamil Studies at the level of Assistant Professor.
The expected start date is July 1, 2018.
We seek candidates with native or near-native ability in written and spoken Tamil and who can ideally work with both classical and modern Tamil literary materials. Cross-disciplinary work and research knowledge of a second South or Southeast Asian language will also be highly regarded. 
Duties will include: (1) supervising graduate students and developing and teaching graduate courses reading Tamil texts/sources, undergraduate courses on South Indian literature, religion, society and
culture, as well as general service courses in the Department; (2) supervising Tamil language instruction in the department; and (3) building the profile of Tamil Studies at UC Berkeley. 
More can be learned about the Department and the campus here: http://sseas.berkeley.edu.
Minimum Basic Qualifications: Applicants must have completed all PhD (or equivalent) degree requirements except the dissertation by the time of appointment.
Additional Qualifications: Cross-disciplinary work and research knowledge of a second South or Southeast Asian language.
Preferred Qualifications: PhD or equivalent degree by date of appointment.
Required Documents: (1) Curriculum Vitae ? your most recently updated C.V; (2) Cover Letter ? including description of research plans and teaching interests; (3) Writing Sample ? one or two significant writing samples (20-30 pages); (4) Sample Syllabus/Syllabi; and (5) 3 letters of recommendation.
All letters will be treated as confidential per University of California policy and California state law. Please direct referees, including when letters are provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service or
career center), to the UC Berkeley statement on confidentiality (http://apo.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html) prior to submitting their letters.
To apply, please use the following link: https://aprecreuit/berkeley.edu/apply/JPF01421. The application deadline is November 15th, 2017. 
Applicants may direct questions to Dr. Munis D. Faruqui <faruqui at berkeley.edu>
The University of California, Berkeley is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or protected veteran status. For the complete University of California nondiscrimination and affirmative action policy,
see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmAct. 
UC Berkeley is committed to addressing the family needs of faculty, including dual career couples and single parents. UC Berkeley has an excellent benefits package as well as a number of policies
and programs to support employees as they balance work and family. The University and the Department are interested in candidates who will contribute to diversity and equal opportunity in higher education through their work.
