From eviatar.shulman at mail.huji.ac.il  Fri Aug  4 07:46:30 2017
From: eviatar.shulman at mail.huji.ac.il (Eviatar Shulman)
Date: Fri, 04 Aug 17 10:46:30 +0300
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Conference announcement
Message-ID: <CAGPpahjiHxmP7uwCyxTLovOfAYfBw81TrV5Heyg3StjU3N+9GQ@mail.gmail.com>

Dear Friends and Colleagues,

I am pleased to send the call for papers for the 18th Asian Studies in
Israel conference, which well take place next may in Jerusalem. We would be
most pleased to accept Indological contributions.

With all best wishes,

Eviatar Shulman

Call for Papers:The 14th Conference of Asian Studies in Israel  (ASI18)

Dear colleagues,

We are delighted to announce that the 14th Biennial Conference of Asian
Studies in Israel (ASI18) will take place at the Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, Mt. Scopus Campus, on Wed-Thu, *May 23-24, 2018.*

We invite proposals on Asian-related topics (Central, South, East and
South-East Asia).  Priority will be given to thematic panels (3-4 papers +
chair and/or discussant), but individual paper submissions are also
welcome. The deadline for submitting proposals for either organized panels
or individual papers is *November 6, 2017.*

The proposal should include the title of the panel or the individual paper
together with a short abstract (150-200 words), as well as a short CV (1
page max) of the presenter/s. With the exception of roundtables, panel
proposals should also include the title and abstract of each paper. Please
indicate in your proposal what equipment, if any, will be required for your
panel or lecture. The conference will be bi-lingual (Hebrew/English).
Abstracts can be submitted in either English or Hebrew (preferably both).

Proposals for panels/papers, as well as all enquiries, should be submitted
by email to the conference mail (asi18huji at gmail.com( with copies to the
Frieberg Center (eacenter at mail.huji.ac.il) and to the conference's
convener, Prof. Michal Biran (ercmongol at gmail.com).

Conference guests are welcome to stay at the Beit Maiersdorf Faculty Club,
located at the conference venue. Priority will be given to foreign
participants. The Frieberg Center for East Asian Studies at the Hebrew
University will help in covering the accommodation costs of  foreign
participants but will not be able to participate in the cost of travel.

Please distribute this call for papers among your colleagues and networks.
Both Hebrew and Non-Hebrew speakers are most welcome.

On behalf of the organizing committee,

Prof. Michal Biran, Convener, The Frieberg Center for East Asian Studies
Dr. Nissim Otmazgin, Department of Asian Studies, HUJI
Dr. Orna Naftali, Department of Asian Studies, HUJI
Dr. Eviatar Shulman, Department of Asian Studies, HUJI
Dr. Jooyeon Rhee, Department of Asian Studies, HUJI
The Department of Asian Studies at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem is
the oldest in Israel and is one of the biggest departments in the Faculty
of Humanities, home to over 300 students specializing in Chinese, Japanese,
Korean, and Indian Studies. The department is characterized by its
excellence in research and teaching, and it maintains an environment of
cooperation between students and faculty in a wide array of extracurricular
activities. To read more about the department, visit:
http://asia.huji.ac.il/en.

-- 
Dr. Eviatar Shulman
Senior Lecturer
Department of Religious Studies
Department of Asian Studies
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
http://www.cambridge.org/us/academic/subjects/religion/buddhism-and-eastern-religions/rethinking-buddha-early-buddhist-philosophy-meditative-perception


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20170804/5c4afe17/attachment.htm>

