[INDOLOGY] Gita 13.6
creation?
Dear HR-ji,
Sorry for not being able to get back to you earlier than this.
Answering questions such as "what exactly is the unmanifest aspect of the
creation?" in a modern context is a little tricky.
We need to be careful not to hastily read the concepts of modern sciences
into these expressions/ideas of a different space and time; at the same
time, it may seem easy to take help of some modern understandings as
analogies, equivalents or modern parlance for these ideas of that space and
time.
As an analogy, let us take the example of forms of energy such as heat.
Heat energy is inferred through its effects but is not directly cognised.
Its effects are vyakta (manifest) but it itself is avyakta (unmanifest).
There are other classifications of creation in Gita:
Prakriti and Purusha; as in saankhya dars'ana, this is the
dynamised/dynamising and dynamising aspects of creation. For example, the
body of a living organism that gets left as a corpse after its 'death', is
Prakriti aspect of nature.  The 'life' that kept it 'alive' while it was
'living' is an example for Purusha aspect of nature. The 'life' itself is
avyakta (unmanifest). Its existence is inferred from the cognisable 'vital'
functions of the organism.
This idea of Purusha is taken to a viraaT ('cosmic') level as in Purusha
sUkta.
The self-regulated and self-sustained nature of the cosmos makes it to be
perceived as 'living' /as organism. This view is what is reflected in
Purusha Sukta. But its 'life' , like the life of a living organism is
inferred from its self-regulated, self-sustained,l functions and existence.
This 'life' of it is avyakta.
On Thu, Aug 24, 2017 at 9:44 PM, Shyam Ranganathan via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
