=?utf-8?B?UmU6IFtJTkRPTE9HWV0gUml2ZXIg4KSV4KS+4KSv4KSV4KWB4KSf4KWA?=
K?lid?sa's mention of an Uragapura (or, in the reading known to Vallabhadeva, N?gapura) seems to have given rise to several theories.
Dak?i??varta?s location of the place on a river K?yaku?? is, as we have seen, echoed in the commentary Mallin?tha, but also in those of the Keralan commentators Aru?agirin?tha and N?r?ya?apa??ita.  Unsurprisingly, the late medieval commentators from further North seem not to provide information about the identity of the place or the river that it lies on.
Nandargikar in his notes to his 4th edition is categoric that the town must be Nagapattinam, which he asserts without any supporting argument (1971:123): 
?Hem?dri interpretes (sic) this by ?n?gapurasya n?tha?.? But he is evidently wrong, the town alluded to here is n?gapa??ana or n?gapa??a?a (Negapattam) in the R?jamahendri district of the Madras Presidency.?
(I suppose that this might mean that Nandargikar supposed that Hem?dri erroneously took the town to be the one that is now most famous under the name Nagpur.)
Then there is the possibility that Uragapura refers to Madurai (as in the post referred to by Emmanuel Francis: http://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology_list.indology.info/1999-March/016494.html).
Others again think it must be in a suburb of Trichy, at the Northern edge of the P???ya area (Ghurye, Caste and Race in India, p. 357):
?This is again the earliest and perhaps also the solitary reference to the famous early mediaeval and late ancient city or town of Uraiyur in Tiruchirapalli (Trichinopoly) district.?
Dhoy??s Pavanad?ta places the town on the bank of the T?mrapar??, which would preclude any identification with Nagapattinam, Madurai or Trichy: 
?r?kha???dre? parisaram atikramya gavy?tim?tra? 
gantavyas te kim api jagat?ma??ana? p???yade?a?/
tatra khy?ta? puram uragam ity ?khyay? t?mrap?r?y?? 
t?re mugdhakramukatarubhir baddharekhe bhajeth??// 8
But of course it is possible that Dhoy? knew little about Uragapura/N?gapura, having simply read about it in, for instance, K?lid?sa?s Raghuva??a in the context of the description of the P???yan king, and that he decided on that basis that it must be on the bank of the T?mrapar??.
Furthermore, it is perhaps not especially likely that K?lid?sa had been there either.  It could simply have been famous to him as the P???ya capital, either in his own time, or in some legendary timeless time that he himself knew of only from other literary references.
Dominic Goodall
Dominic Goodall
?cole fran?aise d'Extr?me-Orient,
19, rue Dumas,
Pondicherry 605001
