[INDOLOGY] Telugu position at the University of Michigan
Dear all,
 Please take a look at the attached advertisement for an open-rank position at
Emory University for Telugu Culture, Literature & History, and share it
with all interested individuals.  Feel free to forward to any potential
candidates.
I received the message from Prof. Velcheru Narayana Rao, who is currently
serving in that position.
Thanks.
Suresh.
The Department of Middle Eastern and South Asian Studies at Emory
University in Atlanta, GA invites applications for the Visweswara Rao and
Sita Koppaka Professorship in Telugu Culture, Literature and History. Rank
is open. Applicants must have Ph.D. in hand by August, 2018. We seek an
interdisciplinary scholar with expertise in Telugu culture, literature, and
history, fluency in classical and modern Telugu and proficiency in another
Indian language, preferably Sanskrit. The successful applicant will
demonstrate an excellent record in scholarship, ability to teach
undergraduates, and capacity to guide graduate students inTelugu traditions.
The candidate will be expected to help build South Asian studies at Emory
generally and to contribute to the core curriculum and programs of the
department.
Interested candidates should submit a statement of interest, a c.v., two
sample course syllabi, a writing sample, and a statement in which the
candidate reflects upon his or her experience and vision regarding the
teaching and mentorship of students from diverse backgrounds.  Candidates
should request three recommenders to submit letters on their behalf.  All
application materials should be submitted via Interfolio:
https://apply.interfolio.com/45403
We will start reviewing applications November 7, 2017 and continue until
the position is filled.  Applications received up to 30 days after review
begins will be given full consideration.
Emory University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative
Action/Disability/Veteran Employer. Women, minorities, persons with
disabilities and veterans are encouraged to apply.  All qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to
race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national
origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other
characteristic protected by law.
