[INDOLOGY] Concerning sandhi of vowels before (t)ti in Middle Indic
Dear Professor Karashima,
Thank you very much for the references. Roland Steiner and Professor Oguibenine had already written to me directly. My interest in the matter was raised by the situation in the A?oka inscriptions. In the Rock Edict Series the instances of the lengthening of the word final vowel before (i)ti seem to be found almost exclusively in the Kali?ga versions (vasev? ti in RES 1 A Dhauli) (and in the Separate Edicts found there [aphes? ti SepE 1 E Jauga?a, but aphesu ti Dhauli], not in the Separate Edicts in Sannati), and almost completely absent in K?ls? and E??agu?i. (the Kharo??h? versions can be discounted). The optatives are problematic in that the lengthening is also found without (t)ti: lahey? SepE 1 G in Jauga?a, la(b)hevu in Dhauli and Sannati, and calev? in Dhauli, caley? ti in Jauga?a and carevu in Sannati. The situation in the 6 versions of the Pillar Edict Series is equally confusing.
gain, thank you very much for the references.
With the best wishes, Herman Tieken
Herman Tieken
Stationsweg 58
2515 BP Den Haag
The Netherlands
00 31 (0)70 2208127
website: hermantieken.com<http://hermantieken.com/>
Van: INDOLOGY [indology-bounces at list.indology.info] namens Seishi Karashima via INDOLOGY [indology at list.indology.info]
Verzonden: donderdag 7 september 2017 1:26
Aan: indology at list.indology.info
Onderwerp: [INDOLOGY] Concerning sandhi of vowels before (t)ti in Middle Indic
Dear Prof. Tieken and colleagues,
Concerning final vowels before the quotative particle (t)ti in Middle Indic, cf. BHSG ?? 4.7 ff., esp. ? 4.18.
Cf. also Boris Oguib?nine, ?Sandhi et la particule iti/ti dans le Bhik?u??-Vinaya?, in: Dharmad?ta, M?langes offerts au V?n?rable Th?ch Huy?n-Vi ? l?occasion de son soixante-dixi?me anniversaire, dirig?s par Bhikkhu Tampalawela Dhammaratana, Bhikkhu P?s?dika, Paris 1997, pp. 169~182: You-Feng; von Hin?ber, Das ?ltere Mittelindisch im ?berblick, 2., erweiterte Auflage, Wien 2001: Verlag der ?sterreichischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, ?? 277f.; Roland Steiner, Untersuchungen zu Har?adevas N?g?nanda und zum indischen Schauspiel, Swisttal-Odendorf 1997: Indica et Tibetica Verlag (Indica et Tibetica 31), 189f.; Anna Aurelia Esposito, C?rudatta. Ein indisches Schauspiel. Kritische Edition und ?bersetzung mit einer Studie des Prakrits der ?Trivandrum-Dramen?, Wiesbaden 2004: Harrassowitz (Drama und Theater in S?dasien 4), pp. 42, 44.
With best wishes,
Seishi Karashima
IRIAB, Soka University, Tokyo
https://sokauniversity.academia.edu/SeishiKarashima
http://iriab.soka.ac.jp/en/index.html
