[INDOLOGY] Postdoctoral fellowship in Missionary Linguistics
Sorry, the document in docx has been lost. Here is the pdf form (which can circulate), and the copy of the text below.
Vacancy: Postdoctoral fellowship in Missionary Linguistics
Starting from January 2018, one postdoctoral fellowship (min. 2000? per month) will be available at the Center for the Historiography of Linguistics at University of Leuven for up to two years. The successful candidate will be a team member in the ongoing research project ?Evolving views on the world's languages in a globalizing world (1540-1840): information growth, conceptual shifts, scholarly networks in the circulation of linguistic knowledge?, funded by the KU Leuven Research Council (2015-2019), and supervised by Toon Van Hal, Pierre Swiggers, Werner Thomas & Lieve Behiels (KU Leuven).
The project aims at offering a comprehensive linguistic-historiographical and cultural-historical analysis of the context, the contents, and the impact of the study of exotic languages as an integrative component of the development of linguistic thinking and practice in Western Europe. It investigates the following questions: (1) How did the circuits of information on languages in the Americas and Asia function? (2) What are the recurrent models of language description? (3) What was the empirical and theoretical impact of Early Modern Language descriptions?
The postdoctoral will conduct a research project that fits in with the general aims of the project. She/he will also be involved in the finalization of an ongoing database project, international joint applications and in the organization of an international conference that will be organized in 2019.
Applicants are requested to submit, before the 20th of October,
            (a) a curriculum vitae
            (b) an electronic version of the PhD-dissertation and up to three relevant articles
         (c) a short project proposal (of ca. 1500 words) that fits in with the general aims of the project. 
Information on the project can be found on c-h-l.be/news
For more information, please contact
toon.vanhal at kuleuven.be                   (history of linguistics)
pierre.swiggers at kuleuven.be             (history of linguistics)
werner.thomas at kuleuven.be (early modern history)
lieve.behiels at kuleuven.be                  (historical translation studies)
Le 18 sept. 2017 ? 09:57, Christophe Vielle via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> a ?crit :
???????????????????
Christophe Vielle
Louvain-la-Neuve
