[INDOLOGY] Once again on the origin of zero: the date of the Bakhshali manuscript (or manuscripts?)
Dear Camillo
thank you for your detailed and informative reply. At the very outset, let me say that I did not intend to cast doubt on the veracity of the radiocarbon dating; in principle, and being an ignoramus in this area, I have absolutely no problem to accept such an early dating, which by the way is in harmony with other recent findings (and, let me add, with a trend to retro-date texts that we thought to be younger, especially in the tantric corpus). So, I wait for the experts to draw their conclusions. 
I just wanted to get a clearer picture of the codicological and philological aspects of this manuscript; your answer clarified many obscure points. Let me stress that I was not advancing any hypothesis; I didn't even know if the text was unitary, so I merely stated a possibility, and immediately pointed to the fact that, as you implied, this seems rather to be a composite manuscript, which I have no reason to doubt. I'm not familiar with the 'replacement' of worn-out manuscript folios, as such practice is as yet unattested in the manuscript traditions that I study, but I must say that I find it fully convincing. This at least would explain the different dates, so I'm happy to accept it without hesitation. If, on the other hand, the manuscripts contain different texts, then we don't even need to accept this hypothesis, as we might be dealing with texts from different periods, perhaps barely related to each other. No problem there either. 
(As to the reuse of old writing material, I might have been influenced by another--quite sensational!--news that came to my attention recently, although from an altogether different manuscript tradition: 
https://www.google.com.sg/amp/www.independent.co.uk/news/world/middle-east/lost-languages-found-ancient-manuscript-parchment-saint-catherine-monastery-sinai-peninsula-egypt-a7916346.html%3famp).
As to the mention of the Gwalior zero, you are right, it's not in the article; I got, again, confused since it is mentioned in several other articles that by now have (inevitably) appeared all over the world (try a google search!), as well as the Bakshali ms Wikipedia page (which must obviously be the source used in such articles). No mention of the SEAsian evidence there either.
At any rate, your statement 
... leaves things quite open indeed. It is rather unsettling that the medias are already jumping to conclusions, but as you say, we all know how these things go.
I also take the opportunity to thank the scholars who replied, on- and off-list, to my mathematics-related question. I'm getting closer to grasping the concept :)
Best regards
Andrea
Sent from my iPhone
