[INDOLOGY] 17th I.B. Horner Lecture, 29 September 2017
PALI TEXT SOCIETY
17th I. B. HORNER MEMORIAL LECTURE
Vincent Tournier (SOAS, University of London)
The Buddha?s Self-ordination: from the Vinaya m?t?k?s to the Milindapa?ha
Friday, 29 September 2017, 5.30 p.m.
Room FG01 (Faber Building)
School of Oriental and African Studies
Thornhaugh Street
Russell Square
London WC1H OXG
All are welcome
ABSTRACT
This presentation will explore the status of the Buddha as an ?ordained? (upasampanna) master, as it emerges primarily within Vinaya literature. In fact, while the issue of the Buddha?s ordination (upasampad?) is not directly addressed in the Vinaya of the Mah?vih?rav?sins, a rich array of sources transmitted among other nik?yas understood the founder of the monastic lineage to have performed a specific kind of ordination, referred to as ?autonomous? (sv?ma?, svayambh?tva) or ?master-less? (an?c?ryaka) upasampad?. Such an ordination features prominently in lists of types of upasampad? opening texts belonging to the Vinayam?t?k? genre. These lists may be fruitfully compared in terms of their contents, ordering, and function within their wider scriptural contexts. In particular, it may be established that the category of self-ordination was used as an important organising factor in Vinaya narratives. Moreover, the buddhological implications of this notion deserve to be explored, and in particular the relationship between definitions of self-ordination and conceptions of ??kyamuni?s bodhisattva career, of his Awakening, and of his status as the initiator of the ??sana. Finally, to take into consideration definitions and uses of this notion within sources of the (M?la-)Sarv?stiv?dins, Mah?s??ghika (?Lokottarav?din)s, and S??mit?yas allows to better contextualise and understand an intriguing passage from the Milindapa?ha. This may contribute to the discussion on the northern connections and the doctrinal eclecticism of this unique P?li text, to the study of which P. Demi?ville as well as I. B. Horner masterfully contributed.
Rupert Gethin
Professor of Buddhist Studies
University of Bristol
Department of Religion and Theology
3 Woodland Road
Bristol BS8 1TB, UK
Email: Rupert.Gethin at bristol.ac.uk<mailto:Rupert.Gethin at bristol.ac.uk>
