[INDOLOGY] Once again on the origin of zero: the date of the Bakhshali manuscript (or manuscripts?)
Dear Camillo and other contributors to this fascinating discussion,
The use of dates that rolled out of the laborious determination of the
C14-C12 ratio in the samples of different parts of the Bakhshali manuscript
is certainly technologically impressive.
The precision suggested in the presentation in the popular Guardian article
is, however, quite doubtful.
Critical analyses of the reliability of carbon dating has been expressed
not only by Christian scientists who are unwilling to put aside the
authority of the bible regarding the origin of the universe, and not only
regarding dates preceding 80000 BC but also for periods which are less
remote. To count with an error range of plus or minus one or two centuries
would seem more appropriate.
To insist on more precision than "plus or minus one or two centuries" is
then rather a case of prau.dha-vaada with insufficient basis.
As you correctly point out, the very different types of evidence are to be
used concurrently.G.R. Kaye planned to discuss in part III seem mostly to
be within the "sanskrit - approximative sanskrit" dimension at a time that
Panini's grammar had not yet reached the status of absolute normativity in
the north-west of the Indian subcontinent -- precisely the native area of
Panini, but not necessarily the area where his grammar started to radiate
its influence most powerfully.
See in this context my EPHE conference report for 2012-2013 (
https://ashp.revues.org/1748, paragraph 12 online or p. 259 in printed
edition)
which I take the liberty to quote here in English:
"One verse, more than a millennium later [than Paa.nini], of the Kaavya
Miimaa;msaa of Raaja;sekhara, enumerates Paa.nini and his teacher Var.sa
among those who presented their work at the royal court of Paa.taliputra,
around 1500 km south-east of ;Salaatura and Tak.sa;silaa (KM 10.23:
/atropavar.sa-var.sau iha paa.nini-pi;ngalau.../). According to Hariprasad
Shastri (1931: XIV), the authors mentioned in the verse would have been in
Paa.taliputra on the occasion of contests that took place every five years
over a period of several generations [which explains why the verse could
have been wrongly read as implying synchronicity of different generations
of ;saastrakaaras]. Did Paa.nini and his master make the long trip just to
participate in the /;saastrakaarapariik.saa/ "the examination of authors of
didactic works" in Paa.taliputra? Or, given that the region of Gandhaara
had become politically rather unstable in the period indicated through
numismatic sources (Alexander the Great) [just after Paa.nini's grammar had
been composed, but had not yet been presented in Paa.taliputra], had they
left their native area?"
Among the variables of Carbon dates, scriptual variation and linguistic
variation, the first is the most objective but allowing a deviation range
of plus or minus one or two centuries makes it at the end possible that the
different samples were in fact much closer in time. In view of the strong
normativity of linguistic usage within the dimension "sanskrit -
approximative sanskrit" it is difficult to derive a linear chronological
difference from the observed linguistic variation. Also writing is a
normative activity and moreover dependent on some amount of individual
variation from scribe to scribe. However, writing seems to have been much
less subject either to the intensive study of early scripts by later
generation scribes or to the conscious reintroduction of archaisms in later
forms of writing (something we see in language, most famously the studied
archaizing "Vedic" language use in parts of the Mahaabhaarata and in the
Bhaagavatapuraa.na).
I therefore tend to take quite serious the judgement of palaeographists
such as Richard Salomon who observed that, what he teleologically called
"Proto-;Saaradaa" "first emerged around the middle of the seventh century"
(Indian Epigraphy p. 40).
I would submit that the "hardest" evidence to judge the date of the
Bakhshali ms and its sections is the palaeographic evidence.
No part of that manuscript can then both show a rather developed form of
early ;Saaradaa (at the end the scriptual variation between different parts
is quite modest) AND belong to the third or fourth century.
You further point to an important dimension often neglected in the study of
ancient Indian texts: the sociological/sociolinguistic dimension: which was
the public interested in studying this text, and in which milieu did it
originate and was it transmitted). Apparently, as you suggest, the public
included the merchants on the Silk route. The presence of a thematically
strongly united but yet composite text could further point to its function
within the sociological context of a certain "school" of mathematics which
transmits part of its knowledge of a curriculum orally and part in a
treasured manuscript that is occasionally repaired or updated (over a
period of decades rather than several centuries, I would submit...).
Let's see where further critical study and discussion will take us...
Jan Houben
*Jan E.M. HOUBEN*
Directeur d??tudes
Sources et histoire de la tradition sanskrite
Professor of South Asian History and Philology
*?cole Pratique des Hautes ?tudes*
*Sciences historiques et philologiques *
54, rue Saint-Jacques
CS 20525 ? 75005 Paris
johannes.houben at ephe.sorbonne.fr
https://ephe-sorbonne.academia.edu/JanEMHouben
www.ephe.fr
On 16 September 2017 at 05:11, Andrea Acri via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
