From mrinalkaul81 at gmail.com  Sat Oct  7 14:19:45 2017
From: mrinalkaul81 at gmail.com (Mrinal Kaul)
Date: Sat, 07 Oct 17 19:49:45 +0530
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Call for Participation: (ICPR) Workshop on Trika Philosophy of Kashmir, Lucknow (February 15 - 28, 2018)
Message-ID: <CAJz4T_7UpQU1EhpoC6cR05y6tGne8LsXZg4KoeVjsj2cqyPXpA@mail.gmail.com>

(Posted on behalf of Professor Navjivan Rastogi)


*Workshop on Trika Philosophy of Kashmir*

(Reading of Abhinavagupta's *??vara-pratyabhij??-vimarsini* J??dhik?ra:
Last Four Chapters)



The Indian Council of Philosophical Research (ICPR) is organizing a
fourteen-day workshop from *February 15 - 28, 2018* on Pratyabhij??
philosophy, the epistemological school of the Trika ?aivism. The workshop
constitutes the Phase-II of the Level Three annual workshop as part of the
four-year programme that aims at studying-in-depth the entire text of the
*??vara-pratyabhij??-vimar?in?* by the celebrated Abhinavagupta on his
master Utpaladeva's *??vara-pratyabhij??-k?rik?*, the path setting
prasth?na text of the system. The sole purpose in the  phase-II is to cover
the last 4 chapters of the Book on Knowledge called *J??dhik?ra*. In this
part our masters deconstruct the established paradigms of Indian
philosophical discourse (specially those of Buddhist logicians) and
reconstruct a system of logic defined by life-affirming world-view via core
concepts of Praka?a, Vimar?a, Vikalpa, V?k et al encompassing within their
ambit issues of logic, language, metaphysics and aesthetics, fully
underscoring the need of "bringing psychology in accord with metaphysics"
(to borrow an expression from Prof. TRV Murti) as integrated within a
robust system of philosophical discipline which could be construed as
integral dynamic absolutism. Understood in this way, the Vimar?in? claiming
to be a Samyak Vy?khy?na (proper and comprehensive exposition) of the
original Pratyabhij??-K?r?kas (a text in the ?gamic tradition), offers a
counter perspective to the prevalent narrative of Kashmir ?aivism as a
tantra-based doctrinal school and projects Utpala and Abhinavagupta as
logician-metaphysicians par excellence in their own right.


The workshop will primarily have two parts ? namely, reading of the core
text and concerted theme lectures covering the issues raised in the text
and/or the prima facie stand-points necessary for navigating the text. The
basic purpose of these workshops including the one in hand is to prepare
the new generation of young Indian scholars in an area which is suffering
from the acute scholarship-deficit by enabling them to have first hand
exposure to the original thought structure and methodology of the masters
through their primary textual articulations.



The workshop will be conducted at the Lucknow Academic Centre of ICPR by
Prof. Navjivan Rastogi, the Course Director and Coordinator, together with
other eminent scholars such as Goswami Shyam Manohar ji, Professors K.D.
Tripathi, Rajneesh Kr. Shukla, Mithilesh Chaturvedi, Ambikadatta Sharma,
Sacchidanand Mishra, Prakash Pandey and Drs. Meera Rastogi, Balram Shukla
and others. Besides participants would be encouraged to proactively
interact among themselves. For this a few sessions could be exclusively
earmarked.


Each day of the workshop will have two academic sessions i.e., from 10:30
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. with a lunch break from 1:30
p.m. to 2:30 p.m.


The workshop will be open to all those who are interested in Kashmir
?aivism. As such faculty members and research scholars in the departments
of philosophy/Indian philosophy, departments of Sanskrit with philosophy as
one of its courses (including Sanskrit Universities) and also those who are
connected with academic centres and institutions operating in the similar
field will be eligible to apply. However preference will be given to the
participants of earlier workshops. The candidates must bear in their mind
that this workshop constitutes the 2nd leg of a four-year workshop
programme. Hence those candidates who have participated in earlier
workshops and undertake to participate in future ones as well will claim
preference.


Those interested should apply online here
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSewkU9bjdinOnmGC26oQoFn6-8Bbbh0De9_NhMoYbJ1CykjCA/viewform>
.

------
Mrinal Kaul, Ph.D.
Coordinator - Centre for Religious Studies (CRS)
Manipal Centre for Philosophy and Humanities (MCPH)
Manipal University
Dr TMA Pai Planetarium Complex
Alevoor Road, Manipal 576 104
Karnataka, INDIA
Tel +91-820-29-23567 Extn: 23567
https://manipal.academia.edu/MrinalKaul
email: mrinal.kaul at manipal.edu


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20171007/dc3e11d7/attachment.htm>

