[INDOLOGY] dhanvantari
Well Nagaraj, how do you define these terms and what one ought to do with
them? You've asked a lot of questions of me, I gave you earnest responses,
I asked you to respond, and then you tell me it's all for nothing because
you don't like my response(s). So, it seems there are some interesting
suspensions of judgement happening here...or perhaps not.
You could continue this conversation by explaining how you understand the
point you make matters. I believe I asked you *if* it matters. Meaning,
what's your opinion? I believe I qualified my reasons why I think it maybe
doesn't matter all the time. I recall also saying that my response was
written quickly and might not be fully formed or articulated as cogently as
it might otherwise be.
I don't have to believe or personally accept as valid any truth claims
someone makes. I'm quite happy to listen to someone's 'truth'...I don't
have to accept it myself as 'true'...as we might just be talking about
opinions in the end. I'm abundantly aware of my privilege and the colonial
origins of anthropology. This history haunts every word I write. I'd like
to think I'm also quite aware of my own biases. For instance, I really
appreciate evidenced-based science over logical fallacies, correlation and
anecdotes... call me a scientist...call me someone who privileges one
knowledge system over other colonized systems of knowing and being. I can
still try and understand why non sequiturs and the like are important
points of validation for other people and how they are used to justify
normative practices within a social network. I don't have to agree with
them or believe them to write about them.
CASE IN POINT:
Are you telling me that I should accept as 'true' when I meet someone like
a high school principal during fieldwork in India, who tells me
emphatically that Australia is full of convicts, Australia has no culture,
my parents are sons and daughters of whores, I'm responsible for the
genocide of Indigenous Australians, and holds me personally responsible for
the murder of 1 lakh of Indian students in Melbourne, that I should do
what, exactly? Get in an argument with this person, who has never left the
state they were born in, let alone been to Australia? Shout them down? Call
them many names? Or should I instead, sit there, while drinking tea in
their house gritting my teeth, listen...to understand this individuals
subjective opinions about their lived experience in the world, and how they
relate to the global picture? And later possibly include their narrative in
the story I write about whatever it is I'm writing about?
What exactly would you suggest I do, other than listen and try to
understand this person's worldview, other than *suspend my judgment*, that
is...and NOT get in a verbal altercation with someone because I might
fundamentally disagree with their politics or worldview in general?
I'd sincerely like to know what you think you might / would do if you came
to Australia and interviewed a bunch of racist, bogan or upper class
Australians who think Australia is exclusively a white, Christian,
heterosexual country, and that the ~400k Indians that now call it home
should 'get out of our country...because it's full', and during your
conversation, they use a bunch of racist, sexist, patriarchal, misogynistic
and homophobic slurs towards you, your family, your friends, your country -
as if they are ever acceptable - would you perhaps suspend your judgement,
not react to their obvious attempts to provoke you, not respond to their
bigoted, essentialised rhetoric, and later, when writing up your field
notes, try and find a way to still privilege their perspective in your own
writing, and give it a voice, regardless of whether you agree with it, or
not?
All the best,
Patrick McCartney, PhD
JSPS Fellow - Kyoto University
Visiting Fellow - Australian National University
Skype - psdmccartney
Twitter - @psdmccartney
*bodhap?rvam calema* ;-)
academia <https://patrickmccartney.academia.edu/>
   -
Linkedin
<https://www.linkedin.com/profile/view?id=241756978&trk=nav_responsive_tab_profile>
Edanz <https://www.edanzediting.com/expert/anthropology/patrick-mccartney>
Modern Yoga Research <http://www.modernyogaresearch.org/events/>
On Fri, Sep 29, 2017 at 4:26 PM, Nagaraj Paturi <nagarajpaturi at gmail.com>
wrote:
