[INDOLOGY] dhanvantari
Thanks Patrick-ji, for reopening the conversation.
If the incident you mentioned about a high school principal in India whom
you met during your fieldwork in India is a report of a true incident and
not a hypothetical one like the one about my visit to Australia which is
imagined to explain the case in point and not a real incident, I apologise
to you as a co-Indian.If it is a true incident and you had a few more such
experiences, I assume that they have a potential to leave a chip on your
shoulder.
The two examples you mention are not typical, representative of the
situations that an anthropologist could face, though they can not be ruled
out as impossible, unrealistic.
Such incidents can be compared to the situations faced by a psychotherpist
or any other medical practitioner where the patient's symptoms include
abusing  and sometimes even physically attacking the therapist. The
therapist does not take it personally and react personally or does not
allow a possible personal reaction in his heart  to affect his
analysis/diagnosis of the case. Suspension of judgement does not stop at
the observation, it continues during the analysis and reporting the
diagnosis too.
Suspension of judgement in anthropological fieldwork too is expected not to
stop at the stage of fieldwork conversations and is expected to continue
during the analysis and reporting stages too.
Anthropologist's work differs from that of a psychotherapist  in the
following two aspects: 1.  Psychotherapist's goal is not to use the case of
a member of a community to generalise about the whole community. That is
the reason why he does not take up more cases from the same community. An
anthropologist takes up more cases from the same community,  compares them
and discerningly understands the similarities and differences among the
cases and carefully makes the generalisations about the community.
2. Psychotherapist proceeds to cure the problem in the case after
diagnosing. An anthropologist usually does not proceed to provide therapy
to the individuals or the community. If he is an activist, he does proceed.
But in such a case, the load of the requirement on the part of the
anthropologist in understanding the case increases because an activist
anthropologist should not allow his activist concerns overtake his
anthropologist concerns.
Next important point is that the generalisation goals of an anthropologist
do not stop at the generalisations about the community, it extends to the
generalisation about the entire species, the entire anthropos community.
This is where anthropology added value to human knowledge. Generalisations
about communities were made even before the advent of anthropology. But
they were either self images of the community blinded towards the rest of
the world or cross-ethnic images filled with cross-ethnic prejudices. Most
of the community self images were filled with claims of uniqueness of a
certain feature or features of the community. Anthropology helped such
communities realise that those features were not so unique as they thought
and many other communities in the world have such features. It worked both
ways, in reducing invalid community arrogance and unnecessary community low
self-esteem.
What is being observed among  some scholars engaged in the studies/
disciplines focused on a certain region or community of the world is that
they too like the pre-anthrpology generalisations about communities blinded
towards the rest of the world filled with impressions of uniqueness of a
certain feature or features of the community contributing to  invalid
community arrogance and unnecessary community low self-esteem, most often
to the second.
Another healthy feature that anthropology is tending to lose in the hands
of some scholars engaged in the studies/ disciplines focused on a certain
region or community of the world is to save the local knowledge systems and
cultures from the onslaught of scientism. In philosophy this was achieved
by German Romanticist philosophers such as or of the lineage of Kant. In
anthropology privileging emic perspectives meant and means this healthy
feature of allowing multiple truths, countering scientism.
On Tue, Oct 3, 2017 at 8:04 AM, patrick mccartney <psdmccartney at gmail.com>
wrote:
Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.
BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra
BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala
Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies
FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of  Liberal Education,
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )
