[INDOLOGY] New Publication: The Assimilation of Yogic Religions Through Pop Culture
Dear colleagues, 
(Apologies for cross-posting.) I wanted to let you know about a recently-published collection of essays on yogic religions and pop culture that might be of interest to the members of this list.
The Assimilation of Yogic Religions Through Pop Culture. Edited by Paul G. Hackett; foreword by David Gordon White.  NY: Lexington Books (2017).
The book is available directly from the publisher with a special 30% discount off the list price using the special discount code ("LEX30AUTH18" -- please see the attached flyer).
https://rowman.com/ISBN/9781498552295/The-Assimilation-of-Yogic-Religions-through-Pop-Culture
ABOUT THE BOOK:
The image of the meditating yogi has become a near-universal symbol for transcendent perfection used to market everything from perfume and jewelry to luxury resorts and sports cars, and popular culture has readily absorbed it along similar lines. Yet the religious traditions grounding such images are often readily abandoned or caricatured beyond recognition, or so it would seem. The essays contained in The Assimilation of Yogic Religions through Pop Culture explore the references to yogis and their native cultures of India, Tibet, and China as they are found in the stories of many famous icons of popular culture, from Batman, Spider-Man, and Doctor Strange to Star Trek, Doctor Who, Twin Peaks, and others. In doing so, the authors challenge the reader to look deeper into the seemingly superficial appropriation of the image of the yogi and Asian religious themes found in all manner of comic books, novels, television, movies, and theater and to carefully examine how they are being represented and what exactly is being said.
TABLE OF CONTENTS:
Foreword
David Gordon White
Editor's Preface
Paul G. Hackett
Part I: Theatre and Film
Introduction
Ken Derry
1. The Yogi, the Prince, and the Courtesan: Iz??l in Europe and America
Samuel Th?voz
2. Supermen, Mystical Women, and Oriental Others: Dynamics of Race and Gender in Pop Cultural Yogis and the Universal Superhuman
Anya P. Foxen
