[INDOLOGY] Sources on Relationship btw Oral/Literary Traditions
may have seen the missionary emphasis on literary culture (meaning the
Bible) as leading to a "new" valuation of the Indian "textual" tradition
(by this I refer to both oral and written text), favoring the literary (in
the sense of a "written" text)?
                     --Herman Tull
inscriptions discussed how the 'literacy' of the stone-inscriber and
illiteracy of the inscription-dictating-scholar/officer lead to 'mistakes'
/ irregularities / inconsistencies /hyperstandardisations in the
inscriptions. While teaching these to the present post-literate generation
, it turns out to be very hard to make the students imagine illetarate
scholars and literate non-scholars situation of those times.
Equating literacy with education and vice-versa is a well established
tendency almost without exception among modern Indians. Expressions like
'illiterate masses' are used in the sense of 'ignorant common people' in
the modern Indian discourse. This has its influence on the modern Indian's
imagination of the pre-modern India. The influence of messianic attitude
that it is the responsibility of the knowledgeable to spread his knowledge
to all the 'masses', acquired as part of modernity added to this new
imagination of pre-modern India, modern Indians frequently allege that the
illiteracy of the pre-modern Indian masses was because of the scholars
keeping them illiterate with a conspiracy that the masses wouldn't know the
secrets of knowledge hidden in the (written) books of the scholars. They
refuse to believe that the scholars themselves were illiterate , their
'studies' in their 'schools' were through oral tradition and that there was
no tendency, as today, of one pitying others for not having one's
knowledge, in that milieu and that is the reason they did not try to
'convert' everyone else into their knowledge.
My own colleagues in the university /academia refuse to accept that
literacy was not an index of development of society or progress of an
Individual in pre-modern India.
With verse particularly metrical verse being gradually looking to be a
frightening wild animal from the past to the general modern  Indian
students getting educated in the spoken (non-classical) versions of their
mother tongue through prose texts, these students take it for granted that
the ancient Indian works being in verse was part of the conspiracy that the
masses wouldn't know the secrets of knowledge hidden in the (written) books
of the scholars. The fact that the books being in verse was part of the
culture of the oral societies, having, among other things, the memorising
facility, as the purpose, is neither explained by the educators nor
attempted to be learnt by the educated.
On Wed, Nov 8, 2017 at 1:19 AM, Herman Tull via INDOLOGY <
indology at list.indology.info> wrote:
