[INDOLOGY] job: lecturer in tibetan
Dear Colleagues,
The University of Heidelberg is searching for a lecturer in Tibetan.
Please spread the word among interested and interesting candidates.
http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/about-us/jobs/detail/m/lecturer-in-tibetan-language.html
The University of Heidelberg invites applications for a full-time instructor in Tibetan language. The position is initially an eighteen-month appointment, and will begin on March 1, 2018. It is hosted by the professorship of Buddhist Studies, as part of the Heidelberg Centre for Transcultural Studies. The salary corresponds to level TV-L 13 of the German public service salary scale.
Applicants should have experience in teaching both classical and spoken Tibetan. Candidates must have a high level of knowledge of Tibetan, fluency in English, and teaching experience; and must hold at least a Master's degree or higher in Tibetan language, literature, history, religious studies, or other related fields. Preference will be given to those with teaching experience at university level.
The lecturer will teach semester-length courses in both classical (literary) and colloquial Tibetan, to students ranging from undergraduate to PhD level. Aside from teaching, duties also include general service to Buddhist Studies and the Heidelberg Centre for Transcultural Studies, to which the lecturer is also expected to contribute with his or her own research interests.
Review of applications will begin on January 1, 2018. Applications will be accepted until the position is filled. The University of Heidelberg is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer.
Required documents:
application letter, curriculum vitae, teaching evaluations (if available), and two letters of reference, as well copies of syllabi of courses taught or proposed. The documents should be sent to Ina Buchholz-Chebbi via e-mail and as a single PDF. Questions regarding the position should be sent to the same e-mail address: buchholz at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de<javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,dwejjqnbBcukc/gwtqrg0wpk/jgkfgndgti0fg');>
With kind regards,
Markus Viehbeck
Dr. Markus Viehbeck
Assistant Professor | Buddhist Studies
Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context"
Heidelberg University
Karl Jaspers Centre
Vossstrasse 2, Building 4400
D-69115 Heidelberg
viehbeck at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de<mailto:viehbeck at asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de>
