[INDOLOGY] The John P Clay Graduate Scholarship in Manuscript and Text Cultures: Sanskrit at The Queen's College, Oxford
Dear Colleagues,
On behalf of Prof. Christopher Minkowski I'm posting this advertisement for a fully-funded PhD Fellowship in Sanskrit studies, with focus on manuscript and text culture, at The Queen's College, Oxford, for up to a maximum of three years. Please feel free to distribute as widely as possible.
The John P Clay Graduate Scholarship in Manuscript and Text Cultures: Sanskrit at The Queen's College, Oxford
Dear All,
The Queen's College, Oxford is pleased to offer, beginning in Michaelmas Term 2018, a fully-funded graduate scholarship for up to a maximum of three years for a DPhil student in Oriental Studies whose research focuses on Manuscript and Text Cultures with a special focus on Sanskrit (including all areas, historical periods, and aspects of this field).
The John P Clay Graduate Scholarship in Manuscript and Text Cultures: Sanskrit covers course fees, college fees and a grant for living costs at the same rate as provided by Clarendon Scholarships. Awards are made for the period of fee liability for the agreed course.
The John P Clay Graduate Scholarship in Manuscript and Text Cultures: Sanskrit has been established thanks to a generous donation by the JJC Foundation (founded by John P Clay, Oriental Studies, 1954 and his wife Jennifer Coutts Clay) in support of Manuscript and Text Cultures: Sanskrit at The Queen's College.
Applications are invited from suitably qualified individuals who are applying to a DPhil course at the Faculty of Oriental Studies for entry in October 2018, or current students studying for a DPhil at the Faculty of Oriental Studies. This scholarship may be held in conjunction with other partial awards, but the total value of your scholarships should not exceed the cost of tuition and college fees in full and a grant for living costs at the same rate as provided by Clarendon Scholarships.
The John P Clay Graduate Scholarship in Manuscript and Text Cultures: Sanskrit is held in association with The Queen's College. The successful candidate will be expected to engage closely with its research cluster on Manuscript and Text Cultures (https://www.queens.ox.ac.uk/workshop-manuscript-and-text-cultures).
The scholarship is open to UK, EU, or Overseas students.
Applicants applying for a DPhil in Oriental Studies (with a special focus on Manuscript and Text Cultures: Sanskrit) for entry in October 2018, and who submit their application to the University by Friday 12:00 noon, 19 January 2018 at the latest, will be automatically considered. On-course students should submit an application form (https://www.queens.ox.ac.uk/files/john-p-clay-application-formdocx) to Jane Kruz (graduate.admissions at orinst.ox.ac.uk<mailto:graduate.admissions at orinst.ox.ac.uk>) by Friday 12:00 noon, 19 January 2018 at the latest. The scholarship will be awarded on the basis of academic merit and potential.
Applications should include:
-        The John P Clay Graduate Scholarship in Manuscript and Text Cultures: Sanskrit application form
-        Two reference letters
-        Curriculum Vitae
-        Research proposal of up to 2,500 words. Candidates should make clear in the proposal how their project relates to Manuscript and Text Cultures.
Dr Camillo A. Formigatti
John Clay Sanskrit Librarian
Bodleian Libraries
The Weston Library
Broad Street, Oxford
OX1 3BG
Email: camillo.formigatti at bodleian.ox.ac.uk<mailto:camillo.formigatti at bodleian.ox.ac.uk>
www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk<http://www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/>
GROW YOUR MIND
in Oxford University's
Gardens, Libraries and Museums
www.mindgrowing.org<http://www.mindgrowing.org/>
