FW: Surinam Hindustani pubs. (Was: Gita)
Van: victor van Bijlert [mailto:victorvanbijlert at kpnplanet.nl] 
Verzonden: vrijdag 16 januari 2009 0:34
Aan: 'Indology'
Onderwerp: RE: Surinam Hindustani pubs. (Was: Gita)
Kab je Yad is wrong. Must be Kab ke Yad.
Van: Indology [mailto:INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk] Namens victor van Bijlert
Verzonden: vrijdag 16 januari 2009 0:21
Aan: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Onderwerp: Re: Surinam Hindustani pubs. (Was: Gita)
Here are some references:
Chitra Gajadin: Kab je Yad, Van wanneer een herinnering. Den Haag:
Nederlandse Bibliotheek en Lektuur Centrum, 1984. ISBN 9062523617
Jit Narain, Dal Bhat Chatni.1977 No publisher. I think he published this
himself. It is quite a long book with 135 pages of Sarnami and Dutch poems.
Underneath the Sarnami title and the name of the author: Raj Ramdas. At the
email address you should be able to get the information on how to order a
copy. I cannot yet find the ISBN number.
Kah?n hai u
Door Raj Ramdas - Uitgeverij Maya Rotterdam 2003
info at houseofmaya.nl
Victor
Van: Indology [mailto:INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk] Namens Allen W Thrasher
Verzonden: donderdag 15 januari 2009 23:35
Aan: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Onderwerp: Re: Surinam Hindustani pubs. (Was: Gita)
Victor,
I'd be very grateful if you could get the information.  LOC has several
works by Damsteegt and one by Gajadin, but not the ones you mention.
Thanks,
Allen
The Hindu broadcast OHM publishes a magazine every three months announcing
their programmes. Some of the writing in the magazine called OHM Vani is in
Devanagari and in Hindi. Sarnami is not much used anymore in writing. There
is a Sarnami grammar book published by my old friend Motilal Marhe and an
exercisebook for Sarnami by Theo Damsteegt and another Surinamese person
whose name at this moment slipped my memory. Then there is the poetess
Chitra Gajadin who writes in Sarnami and there is a book of poetry in
Sarnami brought out by Rajendra Ramdas. I could try to get the
bibliographical data on them.
Regards
Victor
