frequencies
<Well, the tense system in Homeric Greek ...is as complicated as that of Sanskrit. The dual number is, however, lacking. But what does that prove? Duality can be very
easily skipped using additional pronouns such as 'both'.>
?
Fine! But It is not the point that they have exactly the same system. The main point was the existence of different tense-systems with many common modal endings -- true for Vedic and Homeric but almost lost in MIA and most of the other IE languages including French. That proves the living and non-artificial character of the Vedic language as a whole at least up to the period of the earlier Braahmanas. Kuiper emphatically pointed to the dual character of Sanskrit -- of its archaisms and dynamism -- while treating traces of the laryngeals in Sanskrit.. All the other great authorities -- Burrow and Hoffmann included -- have spoken of the dialectal base of Vedic and Burrow of every OIA language recorded or inferred. The contrary views expressed here perhaps owe their origin to some misunderstanding. 
Among others, Pharr (HG 821) gives the list of active and middle dual endings for indicative? 
in primary and secondary tenses and for subjunctive, optative and imperative. The dual does not appear only for the first person. Partly hypothetical conjugational charts are given in sections 904 -- 969.The dual appears everywhere except in the first person as mentioned 
above. 
I ask for apology from members who know much better than me about the closeness of 
Homeric and Sanskrit. Their number must be many. Best for all.
DB
Re: frequencies
Well, the tense system in Homeric Greek (and modern Greek, though to a
lesser extent of course) is as complicated as that of Sanskrit. The dual
number is, however, lacking. But what does that prove? Duality can be very
easily skipped using additional pronouns such as 'both'.
no??hints
2/18/2009
But
artificial
Sanskrit"
<victorvanbijlert at KPNPLANET.NL>
newspaper
      Check out the all-new Messenger 9.0! Go to http://in.messenger.yahoo.com/
