frequencies
At present, practically all sanskrit lexicographic works published in
Europe, India or elsewhere is for up to 90-100% based on the work done from
1855-1875 by Otto B?htlingk and Rudolph Roth (!)
It is well-known that this applies to Monier-Williams' dictionary (see his
own introduction which understates his dependency), but it also applies
to seemingly independent works such as V.S. Apte's Skt-English dictionary,
and to a lesser extent even Taranath Tarkavacaspati's Vacaspatyam (1873) --
which is now being digitized in a project by Varakhedi et al. -- is
"contaminated" with hypothetical etymologies of B?htlingk&Roth. Before
statistics can be done on sanskrit words we have to answer the question: on
which level? Do we consider bhuutasya independent and different from bhuute;
and from bhavati? On the root-level, rough indications of frequencies --
largely based on B?htlingk's and Roth's indications -- are given in
Whitney's Roots ... (grammarians' roots = very rare or hypothetical; V+ =
present in Vedic and later texts; etc.).
The primary need for sanskrit studies before or together with a frequency
analysis of words within a certain sanskrit corpus (taking into account
dhaatus and ga.nas) would perhaps be the setting up of a Sanskrit WordNet,
as already exists for Hindi (on the IIT Bombay website,
http://www.cfilt.iitb.ac.in/wordnet/webhwn/index.php; sequence within synset
according to relative frequency). On verbal roots to be used in a Sanskrit
WordNet see contribution of M. Kulkarni and P. Bhattacharya to the second
International Symposium on Sanskrit Computatinal Linguistics accessible
through http://www.sanskritlibrary.org/Symposium. Oliver Hellwig's site (
sanskritreader.de) can be used to get (absolute) frequencies of words --
from general, syntactical to technical, from ca to paarada -- in texts of
the very specific domain of rasavidyaa.
Jan Houben
On Tue, Feb 17, 2009 at 2:31 PM, Dipak Bhattacharya <
dbhattacharya2004 at yahoo.co.in> wrote:
Prof. Dr. Jan E.M. Houben,
Directeur d Etudes ? Sources et Histoire de la Tradition Sanskrite ?
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, SHP,
A la Sorbonne,45-47, rue des Ecoles,
75005 Paris -- France.
JEMHouben at gmail.com
www.jyotistoma.nl
