Legal constraints (la "Loi Toubon") [Re: Language barriers              --- financial barriers
Same is valid for Greek universities: PhD theses should be written in Greek. There is, however, a change, it is under certain circumstances allowed to write in English (but with permission from all committee members, so forget it).
Alexandra
Van: Indology namens Jean-Luc Chevillard
Verzonden: do 19-3-2009 14:25
Aan: INDOLOGY at liverpool.ac.uk
Onderwerp: Legal constraints (la "Loi Toubon") [Re: Language barriers --- financial barriers
As a contribution to the debate, I would like to mention another
parameter, namely the legal constraints that vary from country to country.
It is (in normal conditions) against the law to write a Ph.D. thesis in
English if you study at a French university.
See the following link:
<http://www.dglf.culture.gouv.fr/droit/loi-fr.htm>
where you will find the "Article 11", of the "LOI n? 94-665 du 4 ao?t
1994 relative ? l'emploi de la langue fran?aise" (known as "Loi Toubon")
which says:
"La langue de l'enseignement, des examens et concours, ainsi que des
th?ses et m?moires dans les ?tablissements publics et priv?s
d'enseignement est le fran?ais, sauf exceptions justifi?es par les
n?cessit?s de l'enseignement des langues et cultures r?gionales ou
?trang?res ou lorsque les enseignants sont des professeurs associ?s ou
invit?s ?trangers."
I have heard that in Germany a Ph.D. thesis can be written in English,
but I would like to have confirmation of that fact.
I am under the impression that in Italy, a Ph.D. thesis must be in italian.
What is the situation in India? Is it possible to write a Ph.D. thesis
in Sanskrit?
The consequence of the French legal constraints is that a French Ph.D.
thesis in the field of Indology has to be translated into English before
it can hope to reach an international audience
(and translation into Sanskrit, or Tamil, can probably only be viewed as
a third step).
Of course, there are people in France who realize that this situation is
problematic, but there are other people who fight strongly against any
change.
veeranarayana Pandurangi a ?crit :
