Language barriers --- financial barriers
Concerning the financial barrier, it is perhaps worthwhile to take 
notice of a growing movement towards making access to scholarly 
publications open (hence: "open access"), rapidly spreading in the 
natural sciences and also developing into a strategy that many research 
funding bodies in the West (including Japan) adopt in general. This 
movement arose mainly in response to changes in the journal publication 
market: large commercial publishing houses charge growing subscription 
rates to libraries, which makes it increasingly difficult for 
researchers to access literature.
Open access means ideally that scholarly publications are free of charge 
and available to everyone - usually in digital format, mostly in PDF. 
Research funding organizations (e.g. in Austria, I believe also in 
Germany) have also turned to encouraging (or even requiring) open access 
publication for the results of the projects they support.
Regardless of some problems that this creates (changes in financing 
models, mostly), it also creates, I think, great opportunities when it 
comes to making research accessible to colleagues in countries with an 
underdeveloped library infrastructure. It's worth thinking about in 
connection with the financial barriers that Michael Hahn so eloquently 
describes.
What I am wondering specifically in connection with Indological studies: 
whence the "enormous cost of publishing books an all types of 'oriental' 
topics in the so-called developed countries", as Michael Hahn puts it? 
Why, for instance, does the set of Oskar von Hin?ber's "Kleine 
Schriften" that was recently announced cost 178 Euros? Do the publishers 
take such great care with editing, layout and design as to justify such 
a price? (The technology required to typeset books in Asian languages 
can no longer justify such prices.) And if not: Why do authors decide to 
publish with publishers when they know exorbitant prices will be charged 
for their books? Is it because the publication with a major established 
publisher is believed to make more impact than a cheaper publication 
with one that is lesser known? Is it the publisher's reputation that 
people hope will also reflect on the reputation of their books? Is it 
the expected professionality of distribution, is it a hope for fame? Is 
it just habit, a lack of knowledge that other possibilities might exist?
Curiously yours,
Birgit Kellner
Michael Hahn wrote:
