New Publication "The Indian Night,              Sleep and Dreams in Indian Culture"
Dear Colleagues,
I wish to inform you that the volume ?The Indian Night, Sleep and Dreams in
Indian Culture? has just been released by Rupa & Co, New Delhi (ed. Claudine
Bautze-Picron) (and a pair of rAjahaMsa appears also there !). It contains
22 papers which were presented during a conference organized in April 2004
in Paris and cover various aspects as seen in the table of contents below
(where all diacriticals have been dropped for the sake of this mail).
With all my best wishes,
Claudine Bautze-Picron.
Foreword
The Physiology of Dreams
Dream Physiology: a western View on Dreams, Jean-Louis Valatx
Dreaming and Dying in Indian Mythology and ?yurvedic  classical Texts,
Martin Mittwede
The Meaning of Dream
A Song against bad Dreams: Magic, Supersition or Psychology ?, Jan E.M.
Houben
Dreams and other States of Consciousness in the Moksop?ya, J?rgen Hanneder
Dreams and Sleep in Praxis
How to sleep ? What to dream ? Sleep and Dream dos and don?ts in the Jain
tradition, Nalini Balbir
Dreams in the Saivite Practice, Luce Barazer-Billoret
Dreams and Transgression in the Sanskrit prescriptive Texts, Jean Fezas
The Role of Dreams in accessing higher States of Consciousness as practised
in a contemporary Indian Ashram, Madhu Tandan
Dreams and Sleep in Language and Literature
Sleep and Dream in the Lexicon of Indo-European Languages, Georges-Jean
Pinault
Common Dream and its Interpretation according to Indian narrative Material,
Jean-Pierre Osier
Between Dream and Reality: literary Function of Dreams, Sylvain Brocquet
Sleep and Dreams in the R?ma-kath?s, Eva De Clercq
The Nightmare in contemporary Tamil short Stories, Chantal Delamourd
Dreams in Buddhism
M?y??s Dream from India to Southeast Asia, Anna Maria Quagliotti
The five Dreams of the Bodhisatta in the Murals of Pagan (Myanmar), Claudine
Bautze-Picron
Dreams about the Buddha?s Departure from Home and the Construction of a
Buddhist System of Dream Interpretation, Serinity Young
Riding the Ass of the Great Vehicle backwards: Dreams and Revelations in The
Life and Songs of Milarepa, Dani?le Masset
Dreams from abroad
The Role of Dreams in Muslim Mysticism, Pierre Lory
Good Dreams, bad Dreams in the history of Japanese civilisation, Hartmut O.
Rotermund
Images of Dreams and sleep
Representations of Visnu?s cosmic sleep in Nepalese Sculpture, Anne-Claire
Juramie
Sayana forms of dev? in sculptural Tradition from central India, Anne Casile
Two illustrated Manuscripts on Dreams and Omens, Joachim K. Bautze
The Authors
