What happened when Brahmins became native Tamil speakers? (Re:              "kaapya-" vs. "kaapeya-" (Re: Actual use of gotra (=vr.ddha) and              yuvan
Dear SP,
yes I remember of the discussions concerning "kApya" on Indology,
notably in March and April 1997 (twelve years ago).
I am aware of the existence of the poets (K?ppiya? C?nta??r, K?ppiy???uk 
K?ppiya??r) and grammarians (Tolk?ppiya?, Palk?ppiya?) which you 
mentionned, and one could also add to the list the poet Ve???rk 
K?ppiya?, who is mentionned as a member of the Middle Ca?kam in the 
initial section of the commentary to the /Ka?aviyal e??a I?aiya??r 
Akapporu?/.
One of the important studies (written in Tamil) where the origin and 
formation of the name Tolk?ppiya? is discussed is the 1904 article 
("I?aicca?kam") by M. Raghava Aiyangar, which is found on pp. 88-101 
inside the 1938 collection of his articles (/?r?yccit Tokuti/, reprint: 
Tanjore Tamil University, 1984) . The most relevant page for the current 
discussion might be p.97, where he connects Tamil and Sanskrit sources.
What I was trying to do, while starting the present thread, was to 
acquire a more precise idea of what may have happened when Brahmins 
became native Tamil speakers, after migrating to Tamil Nadu. And the 
gotra-related vocabulary seemed to be a very important component on 
which to concentrate.
Transparent flexional/morphological derivations (such as are seen in 
Sanskrit) were becoming "opaque" in the new linguistic context and those 
brahmins had to make choices regarding the way they should be publicly 
addressed or referred to in the Tamil-speaking world (i.e. the /Tami? 
k??u nallulakam/).
One of the parameters for which I would like to have a more clear 
understanding is the order of the components, inside names which have 
several components.
For instance, in the Anbil South-Indian Inscription to which you refer 
in your message (SII 8n no.196)
[found "on a pillar lying in front of the Vighnesvara Temple ..."], the 
component "k?ppiyan" (spelt with a dental "n" and not an alveolar "?") 
is found 5 times, and each time it is the first component in a long 
name, all the long names ending with the coordinating particle "-um" so 
that we have the sequence:
On the other hand, in the literary sources mentionned before, the 
"k?ppiya?" component comes last (see K?ppiy???uk K?ppiya??r, Ve???rk 
K?ppiya?), the exception being K?ppiya? C?nta??r.
There are rules in the Tolk?ppiyam concerning the order of components in 
long names (see for instance TC41c, as per the s?tra numbers inside the 
/C???varaiyam/) but I am not sure they are sufficient for 
understanding/explaining all that we meet with in literature and in 
inscriptions.
This is certainly a vast field for which a complete answer cannot be 
obtained on a mailing list.
However, pointers to articles (and books) concerning the "syntax" of 
long names in India are welcome.
Best wishes to all
Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan a ?crit :
