On Sarasvati as mighty glacier fed river ... (was: Re: On Indus              Civ. signs)
Dear Michael,
This and the German article of your next message contain nothing new but
are, indeed, interesting exercises in rhetorics.
Since "even" you seem to accept that the Sarasvati "once upon a time" was a
mighty river almost as big as the Indus, the following research (publ. in
Current Science 2004 vol. 87, no. 8) would in my view deserve more critical
attention. Acording to it the Ghaggar (even by you identified as the [late]
Sarasvati of Vedic texts) NEVER WAS A SNOW FED RIVER because "Sr and Nd
isotopic composition of the Ghaggar alluvium as well as Thar Desert
sediments suggests a Sub-Himalayan sediment source, with no contribution
from the glaciated regions". According to a friend in archeology who has
nothing to do with the Sarasvati debate (and does not work on South Asia)
the research looks solid and the conclusion compelling.
Are there any comments, discussions of this, as it seems, quite crucial
research? Or has it been overlooked as it does not conveniently suit any
party's rhetorics?
An earlier research by Y. Enzel, et al. on Holocene environmental changes in
the Thar desert (Science 284, 125 (1999)) perhaps points in the same
direction.
Jan
***
Received 12 March 2004; revised accepted 14 June 2004
Is River Ghaggar, Saraswati?
Geochemical constraints
Jayant K. Tripathi1,*, Barbara Bock2,
V. Rajamani1 and A. Eisenhauer2
1School of Environmental Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University,
New Delhi 110 067, India
2IFM-GEOMAR, Leibniz-Institut f?r Meereswissenschaften,
Wischhofstrasse, 1-3, D-24148 Kiel, Germany
The identity of the river along which the famous
Harappan Civilization developed and the causes of the
demise of this culture are topics of considerable debate.
Many of the Harappan sites are located along
the ephemeral Ghaggar river within the Thar Desert
*For correspondence. (e-mail: jktrip at yahoo.com)
CURRENT SCIENCE, VOL. 87, NO. 8, 25 OCTOBER 2004
***
On Fri, Apr 24, 2009 at 11:44 PM, Michael Witzel <witzel at fas.harvard.edu>wrote:
Prof. Dr. Jan E.M. Houben,
Directeur d Etudes ? Sources et Histoire de la Tradition Sanskrite ?
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, SHP,
A la Sorbonne,45-47, rue des Ecoles,
75005 Paris -- France.
JEMHouben at gmail.com
www.jyotistoma.nl
