"kaapya-" vs. "kaapeya-" (Re: Actual use of gotra (=vr.ddha)              and yuvan
Dear Jean-Luc,
As for kaappia in Tol-kaappian/-n2 it would still be worthwhile to mention
the alternative theory, viz. that it derives from kaavya so that the
grammar's name would become "old kaavya".
Kapi (brown), kaapya and kaapeya are to be compared with similar words,
often color words, used for individuals, families and gotras: kapi-la (and
kaapila, kaapileya, kaapilika), kapi~njala (francoline partridge and gotra
name), kapi.s.tha-la; pi:nga, pi:nga-la. (Mayrhofer EWAIA notes for kapi
'ape' similarities with a Greek but also with non-ia words for ape ["akkad.
'uquupu' " etc.] and prefers to derive the meaning of the solidly attested
color-term kapi [also in proper names for plants] from 'ape': 'ape-colored'>
'brown'.)
C.G. Kashikar in his 1969 report of his tour "In search of mss of the
paippalaada literature" published in A. Ghosh, Aatharva.n?, Kolkata:
Sanskrit Book Depot, 2002, pp. 156-166, noted the gotra name Kaapyasa among
Paippalaada Atharvavedins and suggested (p. 164) to associate Kaapyasa with
Kaa;syapa.
Witzel et alii in the same volume (pp. 167-179) also notes Kaapyasa as a
gotra-name and expresses his doubts about the spelling.
Instead of resorting to speculation as to how Kaapyasa and Kaa;syapa might
or might not be related, we have to compare the word Kaapyasa with words of
the same semantic and functional domain, and pay special attention to the
similarities and contrasts between the two accounts of Kashikar and Witzel
et alii.
Kashikar (p. 164) notes among Paippalaada Atharvavedins the gotra names
Kaapya, ;Saa.n.dilya, Vaatsa, Kumuda (for those with surname Upaadhyaaya)
and adds that "many of them belong to the Kaapyasa (= Kaa;syapa?) gotra."
For those with Pa.n.daa as surname he notes the gotras Kaapya, Vaatsa and
Bharadvaaja; and again "many belong to the Kaapyasa gotra." Karas, acc. to
Kashikar, belong to the Paraa;sara gotra and the Mi;sras to the Haariita
gotra. Witzel et alii (p. 179) notes only Kaapyasa and omits Kaapya noted
twice by Kashikar (both for Upaadhyaayas and Pa.n.daas); Witzel et alii
further mentions, next to Kumuda (as noted by Kashikar), Kumudesa and adds
"(spelling?)"; and Kau.n.danasya (spelling?) ... Vaatsasa (spelling?) ...
 Haaritasya (spelling?). There is an apparent predilection for gotra-names
with an -as-/-asa-/-asya suffix (once, in Kumuda/Kumudesa, -sa with
palatalisation of preceding a) among Paippalaada Atharvavedins which in
Kashikar's report are mostly normalized to the corresponding gotra-name
without this suffix, except for Kaapyasa. If Kaapyasa could be shown to be
an old formation it could derive from an unattested *kapyas/*kapiiyas
"rather brown" next to kapi 'brown' and kapi.s.tha (in kapi.s.tha-la) ('most
brown'?). Otherwise, in the light of the above mentioned evidence, a
redundant and in pronunciation partly "verschliffen" genetive ending -asya
would explain Kaapyasa and the additional cases noted by Witzel et alii for
the Paippalaada Atharvavedins. Vaatsasa (Witzel et al.) would then
correspond to Vaatsa (noted by Kashikar and well attested next to Vaatsya
and Vaatsyaayana), Haaritasya (Witzel et al.) to the widely attested name
Haariita (Kashikar), etc.
Jan Houben
On Sat, Apr 11, 2009 at 5:10 PM, Jean-Luc Chevillard <
jean-luc.chevillard at univ-paris-diderot.fr> wrote:
