mana in heart or head?
Re: mana in heart or head?
I am not aware of any tantrik descriptions of dissection at all, and would be very interested to see chapter and verse.? My guess is that DC (whose work I value) was either wrong, or thinking of Bhela, or exaggerating.
There is a subsidiary, but important point here.? "Dissection" refers specifically to the medico-surgical exploration of the body for the goals of medicine or forensic science.? It doesn't mean just cutting up a body, or cutting up a body for ritual or other purposes.? I made this point in more detail in my paper:
 Wujastyk,D. (2002). "Interpreter l'image du corps humain dans
 l'inde pre-moderne," in Bouillier,V., Tarabout,G. (ed.) Images du corps
 dans le monde Hindou. Paris: CNRS Editions, 71-99.
As we all now know, following the perception and art-historical discoveries of the late 20th century, what you see is determined by what you know and what you expect to see.? Thus, cutting a body for ritual purposes, one finds 33 parts, because there are 33 participants who each need to be given an part.? This is not dissection.
Finally, discourse on the brain in ancient Indian texts, including medical texts, is extremely limited.? It's function was certainly *not* known, and it was viewed as some sort of fatty tissue (vas?(-cha??)).
Nobody has explored this adequately to my knowledge, but it is my belief that such remarks as exist about the brain (masti?ka, mastulu?ga), including the tantric (but non-?yurvedic) concept of semen storage in the brain, are likely to have originated in China, and come to India probably through communications from Buddhist monks.? (However, these ideas also occur in the Timaeus, so that has to be taken into consideration.)? The idea of brain-semen is present in nascent but clear form in the medical manuscripts from tomb 3 of the Mawangdui burials of 168 BC (Don Harper, Early Chinese Medical Literature, 1998), and can be traced in later Chinese literature from that time.? This is many centuries earlier than the occurrence of the ideas in India.
Best,
DW
long term email address: wujastyk at gmail.com
On Wed, 8 Apr 2009, Dipak Bhattacharya wrote:
??
      Add more friends to your messenger and enjoy! Go to http://messenger.yahoo.com/invite/
