"kaapya-" vs. "kaapeya-" (Re: Actual use of gotra (=vr.ddha)              and yuvan
Dear Jean-Luc,
I do not have the bibliographic resources at hand here to investigate the matter much further, but I can report that the gotra-name K?pyasa (sic) is one among the handful of gotra-names current nowadays among the Atharvavedic brahmins of Orissa. I don't know how things stood for P??ini and the p??in?yas, but at least the Atharvavedic tradition itself is replete with self-references as ??girasa.
For the complete list of gotra-names prevalent in the modern Orissan Atharvavedic community, see the article "A List of Paippal?da-AtharvaVedin Settlements", contributed by M. Witzel and myself to Abhijit Ghosh (ed.), ?tharva?? (A collection of essays on the AtharvaVeda with special reference to its Paippal?da tradition), Kolkata: Sanskrit Book Depot, 2002, pp. 167-179. For a sample of medieval Atharvavedic gotra-names, see A. Schmiedchen, "Epigraphical Evidence on the History of Atharvavedic Brahmins", in A. Griffiths & A. Schmiedchen (eds.), The Atharvaveda and its Paippal?da??kh?, Aachen: Shaker Verlag, 2007.
I had never realized the illustrious authority upon which the name K?pyasa ultimately rests, having always considered it a surprising metathesis from one of the other common Atharvavedic gotra-names, viz. K??yapa, pronounced K?syapa in Orissa. I now guess it is rather a contamination of K?pya with K??yapa, or derived from a genitive form K?pyasya [gotra].
As I noticed last fall, the Karandai plates also happen to list Atharvavedic brahmins, whose mention is otherwise very rare in South Indian inscriptions (see again Schmiedchen's paper, in which the evidence of the Karandai plates had regrettably escaped attention). Do any of them bear the gotra-affiliation K?pya?
Arlo Griffiths?cole fran?aise d'Extr?me-Orient (EFEO)Jalan Ampera III, no. 26Jakarta Selatan 12550Indonesia
See all the ways you can stay connected to friends and family
http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowslive/default.aspx
