Bibliography ?
Dear Dr. Storm,
a further treasure trove of bibliographic citations on Indian art  
history and archaeology can be found in the online Bibliography of  
Asian Studies. This multi-disciplinary, Asia-wide bibliography is  
continuously updated (and already includes 2008 and some 2009  
references) and is considered one of the best sources for article- 
level information on chapters and articles in edited volumes,  
collected works and anthologies, conference proceedings,  
festrschrifts, etc. on South Asia. Of course it also includes journal  
articles from hundreds journals from and about India (and South Asia),  
many of which are not regularly indexed anywhere else. As a  
bibliographic discovery tool, the BAS is excellent as a searchable  
INDEX (complete with multiple subject headings, keywords, annotations,  
title translations, etc.) of tens of thousands of India-related  
articles from festschrifts, collected works, edited volumes,  
conference proceedings, etc.
The Bibliography of Asian Studies is published online by the  
Association for Asian Studies, at <http://www.asian-studies.org/bassub.htm 
 >. Of course, it is not free, but I have found that most research  
libraries and universities maintain the inexpensive institutional  
subscriptions on behalf of their scholars and students. Another nice  
feature is that the full-time BAS Associate Editor for South Asia  
[full disclosure: she's my wife!], herself a scholar of Indian  
history, takes direct suggestions from the community about items to be  
included in the index for Indology, art history, archaeology, and all  
other fields of study related to South Asia. She is Dr. Aruna P.  
Magier <apk42 at columbia.edu>.
Best,
David Magier
Editor of SARAI <http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/indiv/southasia/cuvl>
David Magier, PhD
Associate University Librarian for Collection Development
Princeton University
Firestone Library
One Washington Road
Princeton, NJ 08544
609-258-5710
609-258-6950 fax
dmagier at princeton.edu
On Apr 7, 2009, at 4:40 AM, Anna A. Slaczka wrote:
