TAMIL Lecturer Position at Michigan
Dear Indologists,
     Here is the Ad for a Tamil Lecturer Position at the University of Michigan.  Please circulate it among interested individuals.  Thanks.
The Department of Asian Languages and Cultures at University of Michigan invites applications for a renewable Lecturer position in Tamil language starting September 1, 2009. Applicants should have an MA in a relevant field, native or near-native competence in oral/written Tamil and English, at least two years of experience in teaching Tamil as a second or foreign language at the college/university level, knowledge of the US educational system, and familiarity with language teaching methodologies as well as computer-assisted language instruction. Expertise and experience in curriculum and program development are preferred. Responsibilities include 10-12 instructional hours a week at any assigned levels and active involvement in teamwork and program affairs. A complete dossier includes a letter of application explaining your qualifications and teaching philosophy, a current CV, evidence of teaching excellence, a teaching demo DVD, and three letters of recommendation. Samples of materials and/or project development are strongly recommended. Please send all your application documents to Tamil Lecturer Search Committee, Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, University of Michigan, 202 S. Thayer Street, Suite 6111, Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608. Review of applications will begin March 10 and continue until the position is filled. University of Michigan is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. Terms and conditions for this position are subject to the provisions of a Collective Bargaining Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Lecturers? Employee Organization.  Inquiries should be directed to Nikki Branch (enb at umich.edu), Department Administrator.
Madhav M. Deshpande
Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures
202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104-1608, USA
