Linear B texts
Dear Steve,
Thanks for your reply.  Of course, our Tamil inscriptions from Sangam  
times are longer than the IV writing/symbols, but they're still  
relatively short, which was my point, and very very few have  
survived.  You wrote, "The reason the argument fails was something we  
first noted: no premodern civilization is known that wrote long texts  
on perishable materials but failed to leave *obvious* and *abundant*  
examples of such texts behind on durable materials as well."  Your  
premise is correct, but your conclusion (that the IV civilization  
could not have had writing) does not follow, as we have no way of  
knowing of (perhaps numerous) civilizations that had writing but left  
no surviving record.  This is not a "what if," but a purely logical  
problem.  What's more, each of the civilizations we know about had its  
own peculiar and distinguishing features.  Surely, it's not a stretch  
to imagine that the IV people wrote longer texts on perishable  
materials.  As I said, this does not affect your other arguments.
As far as "Dravidianists" are concerned -- I think there has been a  
natural and understandable tendency to speculate that the IV Civ might  
have spoken a Dravidian language.  Michael Witzel takes issue with  
this in his extraordinarily detailed articles on substratum languages  
in the RV, and his arguments are impressive -- though they're not  
conclusive, in my opinion.  I do, however, find myself tending to  
accept his idea that the linguistic composition of the IV and  
surrounding areas at the time of the RV was quite complex, and that  
Dravidian was only one of several families spoken there.
My particular concern is to get some notion of the prehistory of South  
India and the influx (if there was one) of the Dravidian languages  
into that area.  While this area is outside my expertise, my  
impression is that Dravidian speakers might have come to South India  
about 3000 BC and brought neolithic culture.  I'd be interested if  
others have evidence in this regard.
George
On May 4, 2009, at 12:23 PM, Steve Farmer wrote:
