Mahadevan, _Early Tamil Epigraphy: From the Earliest Times to the  
Sixth Century A.D._, Harvard, 2003 (in the series edited by Michael),  
you'll see unambiguous evidence that the inscriptions, scarce as they  
are, were *regularly* longer than *any* of the thousands of Indus  
"inscriptions" from many centuries of Indus civilization.

Ouch! I always thought that was amusing, and when Mahadevan published  
his wonderful 2003 book I pointed out the irony to him when we both  
gave talks at a big Indus conference. In fact, the very FIRST  
inscription he gives in his book (pp. 314-15), which he dates to the  
2nd century BCE, is in fact well over three times longer than any  
Indus inscription gathered over the past 135 years from large numbers  
of sites dating from the late 4th millennium to early 2nd millennium!  
Take a look at this scan I just made of Mahadevan's transcription of  
that piece:

http://www.safarmer.com/Indo-Eurasian/early.tamil.inscription.jpg

If anyone came up with one such real (not fake) Indus inscription,  
Michael, Richard, and I would have to fork over $10,000. (It won't  
happen, but we'd *gleefully* turn over the $10 K -- not our money,  
but an anonymous donor's -- for reasons we explain in our 2004 paper.)

We've carefully looked at all these counter-arguments, George --  
trying to falsify our own model. That's what goes on in science, if  
it is real science: trying to "save" a busted model is a scholastic  
and not scientific exercise. Things in fact only get interesting when  
models get busted, so you try every way to find holes in your own  
arguments -- not burying those holes anyway you can. (That's what I  
learned from my years hanging out with theoretical high-energy  
physicists: I quickly learned that unfortunately that wasn't the norm  
in ancient studies.)

But the evidence wins in the long run, and then you move on to the  
new interesting places that takes you. That's what we plan to do in  
Kyoto later this month.

Hmm, why do I feel as if I'm in a tag-team wrestling match with  
Dravidianists? Is there a bigger story here that involves things  
thousands of kilometers (and years) from any Indus sites? :^)

> Of course, Farmer et al. have other arguments that need to be  
> considered.

Indeed, and those arguments are constantly being missummarized in the  
discussions. We are very careful in our arguments --- and we try to  
careful summarize the positions of those on the other side.  That's a  
requirement for honest scientific discussion, as we see it.

Best wishes,
S. Farmer




