Hindi Lecturer Position at Michigan
Dear Indologists,
     Here is the Ad for a Hindi Lecturer Position at the University of Michigan.  Please circulate it among interested individuals.  Thanks.
"The Department of Asian Languages and Cultures at University of Michigan invites applications for the position of Lecturer I in Hindi beginning September 1, 2009.  The position is a renewable one-year appointment, and is subject to final budgetary approval. Applicants should have a Master?s degree in a relevant field such as the following: Hindi language, literature, or linguistics; Hindi Studies; second-language acquisition, TESL, etc.  Native or near-native proficiency in Hindi and English is required; at least one year of experience teaching Hindi at the college/university level is preferred.  Duties will include 12 weekly hours of instruction in all levels of Hindi language and active participation in teamwork and program affairs. The application dossier should include an application letter explaining your qualifications and teaching philosophy, a current CV, and three letters of recommendation.  In addition, evidence of teaching excellence, a teaching demo videotape/DVD, and/or samples of self-developed teaching materials would be desirable. Kindly send your application packet to: Hindi Lecturer Search Committee, Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, University of Michigan, Suite 6111 Thayer Building, 202 South Thayer, Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608. Or electronically <kjmunson at umich.edu> Review of applications will begin on June 1 and will continue until the position is filled. University of Michigan is a non-discriminatory/affirmative action employer.  Women and minorities are encouraged to apply.  Terms and conditions for this position are subject to the provisions of a Collective Bargaining Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Lecturers? Employee Organization."
Madhav M. Deshpande
Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures
202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104-1608, USA
