Linear B texts
George Hart writes:
Dear George:
Ignoring all the purely speculative "what if's" in your post, just a  
reminder, although I hate to repeat myself: what we in fact argue is  
that no known civilization that wrote long texts on perishable  
materials didn't also leave texts of significant length behind on  
durable materials.
On your claims about the earliest Tamil inscriptions: I know this is  
your field, but your claims here are demonstrably wrong. See the  
photo and discussion below.
The fact is, the Indus left *thousands* of short symbol strings  
behind on all sorts of durable objects -- not just on "a couple of  
artifacts." Huge numbers of symbol strings on potsherds haven't even  
been cataloged, as you'd find if you read the excavation reports.  
None of them is of any length, unlike the situation in all known  
literate civilizations in antiquity.
Moreover, if we believe the dates given by the Harappa Archaeological  
Research Project (HARP), run by Richard Meadow and Mark Kenoyer,  
those finds extend over a millennium. As already noted, these durable  
materials include *exactly* the same kinds of materials that truly  
literate civilizations routinely wrote long texts on.
There are issues of pausibility at stake here, leaving aside totally  
untestable speculation that "There may be 20 or 30 ancient  
civilizations that had writing about which we have no clue." Well,  
there usually are clues -- and also clues when you're not looking at  
"writing" but other types of ancient symbols, of which there are in  
fact many "flavors," as we've discovered over the past decade.
Quickly: Why everyplace else in the world where we KNOW there was  
literacy would we find literate peoples leaving long texts behind on  
potsherds, pottery, metal plates, vessels, weapons, etc.? -- while in  
the Indus civilization *only* they *exclusively* left symbols behind  
on the same types of objects that were *never* more than a handful of  
symbols long?
I guess you could in principle argue that there was a taboo on  
leaving long texts behind but not thousands of short ones. :^) Well,  
one Indus researcher whose whole career has revolved around "Indus  
writing" has actually said something, obviously rather in  
desperation. ....
You write that "carving something on stone or making a seal is a lot  
more difficult than writing on a palmyra leaf." This is in fact not  
true, George. As you'll recall when you think about it, preparation  
of palm leaves for writing is a quite elaborate and time-consuming  
practice. It is also expensive (as is writing on materials like  
cloth, parchment, silk, papyrus; wood also takes special preparation).
See for one review, Anupam Sah, "Palm leaf manuscripts of the world:  
material, technology, and conservation," Reviews in Conservation  
(2002): 15-24.
We take perishable writing materials for granted. The ancients could  
not.  Scratching on a potsherd, on the other hand, is quick,  
extremely cost efficient, and very useful, especially for accounting  
records. (Think here of the hundreds of thousands of ostraca with  
accounting records we have from the ancient Mediterranean.) We have  
many hundreds of thousands of examples of potsherd fragments with  
real writing and quite long texts from all over the ancient world --  
including India, but of course not from Indus times. In any event,  
take a look at our already detailed discussion of this issue on  
around p. 23 in "Collapse" (<http://www.safarmer.com/fsw2.pdf>), and  
esp. Fig. 1.
One final and obviously critical point -- since it involves your own  
field. You write:
I hate to point out that claims from someone who is a specialist (as  
you are) in this field are wrong, but.... :^) If you in fact look at  
the photos of the very earliest Tamil inscriptions, in Iravatham  
