2010 India Research Fellowship announcement
Dear list members,
The following fellowship announcement may be of interest to scholars  
of Indian citizenship.
2010 India Research Fellowship
The Centre for Studies in Religion and Society invites applications  
from Indian scholars for a visiting research
fellowship appointment at the University of Victoria.
Topics: Applications are welcomed for projects that meet the Centre?s  
mandate of promoting the interdisciplinary
study of religion in relation to any and all aspects of society and  
culture, both contemporary and historical. Topics
may include but are not limited to examinations of religious themes  
within the areas of ethics, health,
environment, technology, public policy, human conflict, art,  
literature, the media, law, philosophy or the natural
sciences. The fellowship is particularly targeted at scholars working  
on religion in modern India, though other
topics will also be considered. Applications from all disciplinary  
backgrounds are welcome.
Eligibility: Indian citizens who are completing their doctoral work,  
are engaged in post-doctoral research, or who
have regular academic appointments in India.
Value: Return travel to and from Victoria and reasonable food and  
accommodation expenses for the duration of
the visit. In addition, fellowship recipients will receive private  
office space centrally located on the scenic
University of Victoria campus; a congenial retreat-like setting;  
university privileges; and enhanced opportunities
for research networking, stimulating and regular scholarly exchange,  
and participation in the Centre?s wide range
of academic and social activities.
Term: Four to six months, beginning between January and March 2010.
Conditions: Fellows are expected to conduct their work in the Centre's  
quarters, to participate actively in the
programs and activities of the Centre and to give at least one public  
seminar or lecture on the theme of their
research.
Application Procedure: Applications should include a descriptive  
title, a detailed statement of the research
project (maximum 5 pages), an up-to-date curriculum vitae and two  
reference letters (to be forwarded to the
CSRS under separate cover). The Centre may also solicit the opinions  
of other referees.
Please submit completed applications to:
Dr. Paul Bramadat, Director
Centre for Studies in Religion and Society
University of Victoria
Box 1700 STN CSC, Victoria, BC, V8W 2Y2 CANADA
Applications may also be forwarded by e-mail to csrs at uvic.ca.
Selection will be made by the CSRS Program Committee based on the  
academic merit of the proposal and the
ability of the candidate to contribute to the academic and social life  
of the CSRS. Shortlisted applicants will be
invited for an interview with the CSRS director in Delhi in September  
2009. The successful applicant will be
announced at the beginning of October 2009.
Deadline: September 9, 2009
This fellowship is made possible by a grant from the Office of the  
Vice-President Research at the University of
Victoria. For more information about the CSRS and its fellowship  
programs visit www.csrs.uvic.ca, or phone
250-721-6325.
Sincerely,
Shayne Clarke
Shayne Clarke
Department of Religious Studies
McMaster University
University Hall, Room 104
1280 Main Street West
Hamilton, Ontario
L8S 4K1
CANADA
Phone: 905 525 9140, ext. 23389
Fax: 905 525 8161
clarsha[at]mcmaster.ca
http://socserv.mcmaster.ca/clarsha/
