From indologi at GWDG.DE  Mon Jun  8 10:16:58 2009
From: indologi at GWDG.DE (Indologie, Seminar fuer)
Date: Mon, 08 Jun 09 12:16:58 +0200
Subject: Professor in ?Indian Religions? (W2), Goettingen (Germany)
Message-ID: <161227086743.23782.7551230284163829466.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Dear list members,

the Georg-August-University G?ttingen (Germany) is establishing the Centre
for Modern Indian Studies (CeMIS) and invites applications for a position of
a professor (salary scale W2) in "Indian Religions". The CeMIS is a new
founded institution funded by the Land Niedersachsen to foster research and
teaching on contemporary India. The Centre?s thematic focus is on economic
and political development of modern India and its relation to ethnic,
religious and linguistic diversity as well as to social inequalities and
political conflicts. The position is available from 1st October 2009.

You'll find complete information below. Kindly forward this mail to suitable
candidates.

Best regards,
Thomas Oberlies
--
Prof. Dr. Thomas Oberlies
Seminar f?r Indologie und Tibetologie
Waldweg 26
D-37073 G?ttingen
Tel.: +49-551-39 13301


The Georg-August-University G?ttingen (Germany) is establishing the Centre
for Modern Indian Studies (CeMIS) and invites applications for
- 1 positions of a professor (salary scale W2) ?
The CeMIS (www.uni-goettingen.de/cemis) is a new founded institution funded
by the Land Niedersachsen to foster research and teaching on contemporary
India. The Centre?s thematic focus is on economic and political development
of modern India and its relation to ethnic, religious and linguistic
diversity as well as to social inequalities and political conflicts. The
three professorships are affiliated to the Faculty of Economics (W3) and to
the Faculty of Philosophy (W2). They will be completed by two additional
social science professorships in the near future and shall cooperate in the
framework of an interdisciplinary Centre affiliated to several Faculties. The
positions are available from 1st October 2009.


Professor in ?Indian Religions? (W2)

Applications are invited from candidates working on religions in contemporary
India from a religious studies perspective. This includes particularly
candidates who work on Hindu-Muslim or Hindu-Christian relations and their
implications for social conflict and political integration in the modern era.
Candidates should work with primary materials in an Indian language.
Candidates must have an interest in interdisciplinary cooperation with other
social science professors in the newly created Centre.
Teaching responsibilities will particularly include contributions to, and
further development of, a newly created Bachelor in Modern Indian Studies as
well as a Master in Modern Indian Development Studies. Participation in other
teaching in the Faculty of Philosophy to which the professorship is
affiliated, is encouraged and contribution to PhD training within the
G?ttingen Graduate School of Humanities is welcomed.
Preconditions for appointment are laid down in ? 25 of the Higher Education
Law of Lower Saxony of 26.02.2007 (Official Law Gazette of Lower Saxony, Nds.
GVBl. 5/ 2007 p. 69). As a Public Law Foundation, the University of G?ttingen
holds the right of appointment. Further details will be explained on inquiry.
We explicitly welcome applications from abroad. Under certain circumstances
part-time employment is possible. Disabled persons with corresponding
aptitude for the position will be favoured. The University strives to
increase its proportion of female staff and specifically encourages qualified
women to apply.
Applications, including pertinent documentation (CV, list of publications,
teaching and research track records etc.) are requested by July 22, 2009 and
should be sent to the Dekanin der Philosophischen Fakult?t der
Georg-August-Universit?t G?ttingen, Humboldt-allee, D-37073 G?ttingen,
Germany), email: dekanin at phil.uni-goettingen.de. For further information,
please contact Vicepresident Prof. Casper-Hehne, email:
(hiltraud.casper-hehne at zvw.uni-goettingen.de).




