here,              here (was: Re: What Devanagari text would you most like as an              e-text_
Coordinating printed Dictionaries reasonably saves time. But the Gandhari mss?have not themselves been coordinated, an absurd prosposition till a critical?index is prepared,?a work that requires hard manual labour, a case by case inductive procedure.?
You must have something in your mind that is not clear to me. The reason is as follows. The draft of?a p?da-index of the new material in the Paippal?da-Samhit? is in my hand. So also is Bloomfield's Vedic Concordance. The p?da-index had to be manually prepared, the current checking too is to be manually done. After this one can think of putting the thing on a computer. 
No?
DB
?
Re: here, here (was: Re: What Devanagari text would you most like as an e-text_
Dear Dipak,
Electronic dictionaries provide far more options in terms of search
capability than do printed volumes. A couple of examples:
It is possible to search an electronic version of MW or BHSD for entries
ending in either uttara or ottara with a single search, "*(u|o)ttara". Such
a search of the printed work would require leafing through the whole volume.
For those of us working on damaged manuscripts such a facility is extremely
helpful.
When working with Gandhari it is helpful to be able to search for OIA
equivalents of particular clusters to see what the reflexes are in known
Gandhari cognates. Searching for *(a|?|i|?|u|?|r?|e|o)hy* gives the results
of the cluster hy after a vowel. Turner's CDIAL required a separate volume
of Phonetic correspondences to provide this kind of inquiry.
Then there is the matter of saving time. If the electronic dictionaries are
coordinated, one could search MW and BHSD at the same time. Since Edgerton's
dictionary was intended to be complement to MW words may be found in one
place or the other or both (or neither). Instant access may not appeal to
everyone but there are times when it is very convenient.
To be sure, it is not about the price of the dictionaries, Edgerton's work
has long been affordable, it is all about accessing this and other works in
new ways.
Best wishes,
Andrew
      Explore and discover exciting holidays and getaways with Yahoo! India Travel http://in.travel.yahoo.com/
