Untoucables in Classical Tamil Society? (Re: New discovery in              Tamil Nadu)
Dear Colleagues,
It seems that tho there is no such explicit statement, the correspondents assume an integral relation between casteism and medievaluntouchbilty.? There seems to exist an unwritten concensus on this among all scholars.
Untouchabilty of course existed in Paanini's time (c.400 BCE?) but with an extremely limited scope. They are called aniravasita in P.2.4.10. 
Patanjali (between 187- 151 BCE)?includes two castes among them Candaalas and Mrtapas. Both of them dealt with dead bodies. And they were not graamvaahyas 'living outside the village'. Patanjali refers to their large neighbourhoods surrounded by Aryan neighbourhoods. Kautilya too speaks of? Candaalas, otherwise he is silent on untouchability. 
The violently excluded 'untouchables' of the North and the reciprocal untouchability of the South,?should have grown much later. Their 'untouchability' had nothing to do with superstitions about dead bodies. This all pervasive untouchability is, according to my knowledge, till now, on the whole,an unexplored subject.The earliest evidence of their existence comes, perhaps, from the Dharmasuutras which are much later.
Casteim , as many scholars have thought, is of pre-Aryan Indian origin. But this cannot hold good of medieval Indian untouchablity.
Sometimes I pointed to this enigma of untouchability. But the views were expressed in India and that too in Bengali. 
?
Best wishes
DB
Re: Untoucables in Classical Tamil Society? (Re: New discovery in Tamil Nadu)
I can understand -- and share -- Palaniappan's desire to see the old Tamil society of the Sangam works as casteless and egalitarian, just as I wish modern society were casteless.? This belief about the old "golden age" of Sangam times has had enormous political consequences for modern India, and it is proved an extremely powerful idea.? And it is true that in the Sangam works, we encounter views and poetry that seem almost modern and have elements of egalitarianism.? This, however, does not make old Tamil society an anomaly in a premodern world in which virtually every culture had a deep and abiding belief in various sorts of magic and in a world of spirits.? I can only say that, in my view, whatever "pooz" may mean (and surely the needle was not used just to push around pieces of bamboo, and I haven't seen any instance of peacock feathers being wrapped around bows), my reading of the texts shows clearly the existence of a varied group at the bottom
 of society who were technicians of the sacred and who interacted with the spirit world.? These people are described as "of low birth" and words from the root pulai are applied to them (e.g. pulaitti).? I can't accept Palaniappan's etymology of this word as related to "poli," shine -- for the root is used in many other Dravidian languages to mean a stain or to apply to very low-caste people.? Its meanings in the Lexicon are "1 baseness 2 uncleanness 3 defilement 4 vice, evil way 5 lie 6 adultery 7 animal food 8 outcaste 9 stench."? In any event, the papers of myself and Palaniappan are available and anyone interested in this subject can read them and come to their own conclusions.
On another note, it's interesting to see "uuci" < suuci used for "needle" -- it shows how technology from the north spread among every group in old Tamilnadu.
And finally, T.P. Mahadevan suggests that somehow in North India, the caste system went from the top down.? I would disagree, as I don't think the whole system was somehow the result of a political imposition by the top 3 "varnas."? No one from outside India has ever seen the 4 (or 5) varnas -- post-Vedic North India has always, in real terms, been characterized by many endogamous jaatis, though no doubt they have often identified with one or other varna.? If one wants to get an idea of the pre-Aryan system, it is my impression that a great deal of insight can be gained by looking at the far north (Nepal) and far south.? It is, of course, true that in the north, the Brahmanical system had great power and influence (as it did later in the South), but I think it is still possible in the North to see the basic outlines of an older system in which Dalits were given low status because they dealt with spirits.? George Hart
On Jul 3, 2009, at 11:29 PM, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan wrote:
      Looking for local information? Find it on Yahoo! Local http://in.local.yahoo.com/
