Untoucables in Classical Tamil Society? (Re: New discovery in              Tamil Nadu)
But George Hart simplifies the issue by telescoping some version of the Sangam model first to the early Aryan period, then to pre-Aryan period.  Thus Vedic clans arriving in the Panjab exclude the indigenous "dalits" as" untouchables."  There is really no evidence for this.  On the other hand, all recent work on the Vedic period shows that there was a great deal of assimilation between the Vedic clans and the indigenous peoples.
And,  surely for the Vedic period,  as we know, the brahma-k?atra alliance (the two "upper castes") underlies the foundation of the Vedic society, the prince deriving his legitimacy from the Brahmans, without, however, a Brahman reciprocal acknowledgement of the prince as the civil authority and reserving it for Soma "our King".  We see this dramatized in three consecutive episodes in the Agnicayana ritual, the pan-ultimate ritual of the seven-ritual Soma-scheme.  As Frits Staal (2004: 523) shows, the ritual enclosure of a ?rauta sacrifice functions as a historical map, the ?rauta rituals themselves forming a sequence, along the west-east axis, essentially from Central Asia (or perhaps Eastern Iran)  through the Panjab into South Asia proper, the ritual encapsulating and recapitulating the eastward movement and settlement.  The ritualists clearly enact the process in the ritual by moving from the Pr?c?na??la, Old Hall, in the west to the Mah?vedi, Great Altar Space, in the east.  In the Agnicayana, the Mah?vedi is clearly envisioned as the new nation-state, and the ritual episode, R???rabh??, Holding of the Realm (Episode # 22, Staal, Agni 1983 [I]: 570-88),  enacts this, the four-fold division of the populace formally announced during the ritual.   The Adhvaryu mutters the yajus (TS 5.7.6. 3d): ?ruca? no dhehi; br?hma?e?u ruca? r?jasu nask?dhi ruca? vi?ye?u ??dre?u? (?Give light to our Brahmans, place light in our chieftains, light in tribesmen and servants;? Staal?s translation).  Clearly the system of four "castes" conceived as varnas is implicit here, and it is a hierarchical arrangement.  Hart's  innumerable jaatis rise at a later period.  The TS is a Mantra period text, not far in time from RV 10. 90, where the four-fold division is first formally announced, and often seen as the first constitution of Aryan India.
Best, T.P.Mahadevan  
Sent: Saturday, July 04, 2009 9:50 AM
Re: Untoucables in Classical Tamil Society? (Re: New discovery in Tamil Nadu)
I can understand -- and share -- Palaniappan's desire to see the old
Tamil society of the Sangam works as casteless and egalitarian, just
as I wish modern society were casteless.  This belief about the old
"golden age" of Sangam times has had enormous political consequences
for modern India, and it is proved an extremely powerful idea.  And it
is true that in the Sangam works, we encounter views and poetry that
seem almost modern and have elements of egalitarianism.  This,
however, does not make old Tamil society an anomaly in a premodern
world in which virtually every culture had a deep and abiding belief
in various sorts of magic and in a world of spirits.  I can only say
that, in my view, whatever "pooz" may mean (and surely the needle was
not used just to push around pieces of bamboo, and I haven't seen any
instance of peacock feathers being wrapped around bows), my reading of
the texts shows clearly the existence of a varied group at the bottom
of society who were technicians of the sacred and who interacted with
the spirit world.  These people are described as "of low birth" and
words from the root pulai are applied to them (e.g. pulaitti).  I
can't accept Palaniappan's etymology of this word as related to
"poli," shine -- for the root is used in many other Dravidian
languages to mean a stain or to apply to very low-caste people.  Its
meanings in the Lexicon are "1 baseness 2 uncleanness 3 defilement 4
vice, evil way 5 lie 6 adultery 7 animal food 8 outcaste 9 stench."
In any event, the papers of myself and Palaniappan are available and
anyone interested in this subject can read them and come to their own
conclusions.
On another note, it's interesting to see "uuci" < suuci used for
"needle" -- it shows how technology from the north spread among every
group in old Tamilnadu.
And finally, T.P. Mahadevan suggests that somehow in North India, the
caste system went from the top down.  I would disagree, as I don't
think the whole system was somehow the result of a political
imposition by the top 3 "varnas."  No one from outside India has ever
seen the 4 (or 5) varnas -- post-Vedic North India has always, in real
terms, been characterized by many endogamous jaatis, though no doubt
they have often identified with one or other varna.  If one wants to
get an idea of the pre-Aryan system, it is my impression that a great
deal of insight can be gained by looking at the far north (Nepal) and
far south.  It is, of course, true that in the north, the Brahmanical
system had great power and influence (as it did later in the South),
but I think it is still possible in the North to see the basic
outlines of an older system in which Dalits were given low status
because they dealt with spirits.  George Hart
On Jul 3, 2009, at 11:29 PM, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan wrote:
