Untoucables in Classical Tamil Society? (Re: New discovery in              Tamil Nadu)
George Hart: "[T]he caste system grew from the bottom up"
This would pose a problem with the caste system of North India, as we know it,  but Hart's point that  the system had something to do  with "dangerous" worlds would seem to be beyond question, and that, consequently,  the group who were engaged in it, whether it is the ritual world of Vedism or the spirit world of the ananku in the Tamil world, was outside the "ordered world".  As is well known, the ritually active Brahman is a sort of an "untouchable" among other Brahmans for the same reasons as certain castes were considered "low" in the Sangam period.  Both transact with "dangerous" worlds.  Yet, as we know, the two groups are "untouchable" in radically different ways.  Thus the North Indian caste system seems to grow from top down.
T.P.Mahadevan 
Sent: Thursday, July 02, 2009 3:55 PM
Re: Untoucables in Classical Tamil Society? (Re: New discovery in Tamil Nadu)
Palaniappan has ingenious arguments, but for me they don't work.  He
says pooz does not mean leather strap, but then how about Akam 281.5,
"Winding a long pooz on his bow."  Clearly this does not mean rattan
or palmyra.  And it's quite difficult to imagine someone using a
needle on either rattan or palmyra.  In any event, there is much more
to indicate that certain castes were considered "low" because of their
connection with things dead and the spirit world in the Sangam works.
If anyone is interested, I'll send a pdf of a paper I wrote (and to
which Palaniappan responded -- he will, I'm sure, send you a link to
his paper also).  As far as washermen go, the issue is not how they
were classified at period x or y, but how they were regarded in Sangam
texts.  It is obvious that the position of castes changes over time
and in different places -- the Nadars are an example.  My own view is
that the caste system grew from the bottom up, not from the top down.
It is based on the concept that people who have contact with and
manipulate the spirit world are dangerous and should be kept out of
the ordered world of the upper castes.  G. Hart
On Jul 2, 2009, at 1:12 AM, Sudalaimuthu Palaniappan wrote:
