On the origin of the aaryaa meter (Re: Choice of meter for              writing a treatise: s'loka vs. aaryaa
re: the use of ?ry?s in "scientific" literature, warder pointed out (in a
footnote at the beginning of the ga?acchandas section, if i'm remembering
correctly) that the ?ry? is extremely flexible and so can accomodate a lot
of technical terms.  the other abstract practical benefit is that it's
longer than the ?loka.  that, of course, doesn't explain *why* certain
treatises were written in ?ry?s.  alsdorf has written on the ?ry?s in
buddhist and jain literature (the ?ry? stanzas of the uttarajjh?y?,
wiesbaden 1966; die ?ry?-strophen des pali canons, wiesbaden 1968;
itth?parinn? in IIJ 2 (1958): 249-270; and his appendix to the PTS's 2nd
edition of the thera- and ther?g?th?s, 1966).  it does seem from norman's
article that he thinks the ?ry? was especially popular in certain times and
places (mah?r???ra in first few centuries ce).  i'm not sure what this means
for the s??khyak?rik? or the b?hatsamhit?.  if it was already "popular"
(from erotic prakrit lyric or other genres) it might have seemed as viable
as the ?loka for long technical treatises to certain people.  according to
alsdorf, some ?lokas even got corrupted into ?ry?s in the course of
transmission---the opposite of what happens in, e.g., pali.  re: george
hart's recent response, "influence" is very hard to pin down.  it does seem
clear that the ?ry? is the final product of a long period of experimental
composition in structurally similar verse-forms (cf. randle in the p.k.
commemoration volume, pune 1960) in indo-aryan languages.  but dravidian may
have "influenced" ?ry?-type verses indirectly, by influencing the phonology
(especially prosodic phonology) of the indo-aryan languages in which the
earliest m?tr?-meters were composed.  the other line of argumentation, not
necessarily incompatible with this, is associated with jacobi in ZDMG 1884
590-619: the m?tr?-meters developed out of certain vedic meters by
resolution, anaclasis, etc.
andrew ollett
(mphil student/oxford)
On Sat, Jul 11, 2009 at 12:06 PM, Jean-Luc Chevillard <
jean-luc.chevillard at univ-paris-diderot.fr> wrote:
