My final post on this
Let me quickly add that in the heat of arguing, I expressed myself a  
bit too strongly.  Certainly Rajam's article is worth reading, as she  
is an eminent scholar.  Her book on the grammar of Old Tamil is  
indispensable and she has often given me valuable insights, which I  
have acknowledged.  If anyone is interested, they should certainly  
read what she has written and form their own opinion.  I also agree  
with Jean-Luc that my comment on Rajam's article was not sufficient --  
one needs to look at the word in all its contexts.  Still, from all my  
reading and experience with old Tamil, I do not believe Rajam is  
correct in making the meaning of the word so broad.  I would revisit  
this (and perhaps I will), but I find myself no longer having such an  
interest in historical anthropology -- I am nowadays much more  
interested in the old literature and its poetry.
I would like to end my comments on this subject (I promise) by  
thanking everyone involved.  I find disagreement is extremely helpful  
in considering difficult issues.  Prof. Tieken, with whom I largely  
disagree, has made me much more open to issues of dating in old Tamil,  
Palaniappan has raised many excellent points, as did Rajam.
Finally, I'd like to suggest that this forum has been moribund too  
long.  There has been almost no debate on important issues regarding  
Sanskrit, which is the expertise of 99% of the people on the forum.   
The interesting topics have been the IV culture and old Tamil --  
perhaps it takes the Tamil penchant for argument and disagreement to  
bring life to this forum?  As I remember it, ZDMG has some wonderfully  
heated discussions of the RV and other issues -- could we not emulate  
that old journal and have a bit more of scholarly (not political)  
debate here?  And for everyone who works primarily with Sanskrit, I  
hope this discussion sheds a bit of light on just how rich and  
important old Tamil are.  George Hart
By the way, my article on caste in ancient South India is available at http://www.tamilnation.org/caste/hart.pdf 
.
On Jul 6, 2009, at 4:07 AM, Jean-Luc Chevillard wrote:
