From dominic.goodall at GMAIL.COM  Sat Jul  4 03:59:34 2009
From: dominic.goodall at GMAIL.COM (Dominic Goodall)
Date: Sat, 04 Jul 09 09:29:34 +0530
Subject: articles on textual transmission
Message-ID: <161227086931.23782.14601729629401807110.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

This collection of articles (some in French, some in English) about  
textual transmission in India has just been
published from the EFEO in Paris (diffusion at efeo.net):

?crire et transmettre en Inde classique

G?rard Colas & Gerdi Gerschheimer (eds.),  ? Etudes th?matiques ?, n 
?23, 2009, 18,5 x 27,5 cm, 328 p.

ISBN : 978 2 85539 098 7
ISSN : 1269-8067

The transmission of texts in premodern India cannot be dissociated  
from their use. Studying the milieux in which they were produced, as  
well as the literary genres to which they belong, can explain in part  
the ways in which they came into being, were read and underwent  
transformation. Some works, for example, are to a great extent shaped  
by being rooted in a fluid oral tradition; others have been submitted  
to the strictures of a learned discipline; others again have been  
transmitted by more than one path at the same time. Belles-lettres,  
works of grammar and philosophy, epigraphy, religious literature and  
ritual manuals all present different situations. The papers in this  
volume consider such situations with a shared perspective: the need to  
go beyond a simplistic opposition between orality and writing, an  
opposition which reveals itself to be not particularly fruitful for  
the study of premodern India, and to contribute towards a critique of  
text-criticism, thus refining philological methods.

(For a cover image, see http://www.efeo.fr/publications/vdp.shtml)


CONTENTS

Introduction. G?rard Colas et Gerdi Gerschheimer

- Premi?re partie : normes, canons, lecteurs
Texts and What to Do with Them: D?d?panth? Compilations (Monika  
Horstmann)
Les lecteurs jaina ?vet?mbara face ? leur canon (Nalini Balbir)
Retracer la transmission des textes litt?raires ? l?aide des textes  
? th?oriques ? de l?Ala?k?ra??stra ancien : quelques exemples  
tir?s du Raghuva??a (Dominic Goodall)

- Deuxi?me partie : Texte, ?criture, imitation
Transmission sans ?criture dans l?Inde ancienne : ?nigme et  
structure rituelle (Jan E. M. Houben)
The Fine Art of Forgery in India (Richard Salomon)
The Alchemy of Poetry: Poetic Borrowing and the Transmission of Texts  
(Phyllis Granoff)

- Troisi?me partie: textes labiles, textes fix?s
Copier, interpr?ter, transformer, repr?senter, ou Des modes de la  
diffusion des ?critures et de l??crit dans le bouddhisme indien  
(Cristina Scherrer-Schaub)
Transmission et recr?ation pur??ique : le cas du  
Brahm???apur??a (Christophe Vielle)
On the Absence of Urtexts and Otiose ?c?ryas: Buildings, Books, and  
Lay Buddhist Ritual at Gilgit (Gregory Schopen)
Des rites de temple aux commentaires : les diff?rentes transmissions  
du P?ram?tmika (G?rard Colas)

- Quatri?me partie : les ma?tres retrouv?s
The Pantheon of Tamil Grammarians: A Short History of the Myth of  
Agastya?s Twelve Disciples (Jean-Luc Chevillard)
Critique et transmission textuelles dans la tradition p??in?enne  
(Johannes Bronkhorst)
Sthitasya gati? cintan?y? ? ? propos de la ? Glose concise  
? (Laghuv?tti) du ?a?dar?anasamuccaya de Haribhadra (Gerdi  
Gerschheimer)

R?sum?s / abstracts
Auteurs / Authors




