Professor in ?Indian Religions? (W2), Goettingen (Germany)
Dear list members,
the Georg-August-University G?ttingen (Germany) is establishing the Centre
for Modern Indian Studies (CeMIS) and invites applications for a position of
a professor (salary scale W2) in "Indian Religions". The position is
available from 1st October 2009. Applications are requested by September
19th, 2009.
You'll find complete information below. Kindly forward this mail to suitable
candidates.
Best regards,
Thomas Oberlies
Prof. Dr. Thomas Oberlies
Seminar f?r Indologie und Tibetologie
Waldweg 26
D-37073 G?ttingen
Tel.: +49-551-39 13301
The Georg-August-University G?ttingen (Germany) is establishing the Centre
for Modern Indian Studies (CeMIS) and invites applications for a position of
a 
- professor in ?Indian Religions? (salary scale W2) ?
The CeMIS (www.uni-goettingen.de/cemis) is a new founded institution funded
by the Land Niedersachsen (State of Lower Saxony) to foster research and
teaching on contemporary India. The Centre?s thematic focus is on economic
and political development of modern India and its relation to ethnic,
religious and linguistic diversity as well as to social inequalities and
political conflicts. Three professorships are being established at present.
They are affiliated to the Faculty of Economics and to the Faculty of
Philosophy. They will be complemented by two additional social science
professorships in the near future and shall cooperate in the framework of an
interdisciplinary Centre affiliated to several faculties. The position is
available from 1st October 2009.
Applications are invited from candidates working on religions in contemporary
India from a religious studies perspective. This includes particularly
candidates who work on Hindu-Muslim or Hindu-Christian relations and their
implications for social conflict and political integration in the modern era.
Candidates should work with primary materials in an Indian language.
Candidates must have an interest in interdisciplinary cooperation with other
social science professors in the newly created Centre.
Teaching responsibilities will particularly include contributions to, and
further development of, a newly created Bachelor in Modern Indian Studies as
well as a Master in Modern Indian Development Studies. Participation in other
teaching programmes in the Faculty of Philosophy to which the professorship
is affiliated, is encouraged and contribution to PhD training within the
G?ttingen Graduate School of Humanities is welcomed.
Applications, including pertinent documentation (CV, list of publications,
teaching and research track records etc.) are requested by September 19th,
2009 and should be sent to the Dekanin der Philosophischen Fakult?t der
Georg-August-Universit?t G?ttingen, Humboldtallee, D-37073 G?ttingen,
Germany, email: dekanin at phil.uni-goettingen.de. A previously published
application deadline for this position is thereby extended.
For further information, please contact vice-president Prof. Casper-Hehne,
email: hiltraud.casper-hehne at zvw.uni-goettingen.de.
Preconditions for appointment are laid down in ? 25 of the Higher Education
Law of Lower Saxony of 26.02.2007 (Official Law Gazette of Lower Saxony, Nds.
GVBl. 5/2007 p. 69). As a Public Law Foundation, the University of G?ttingen
holds the right of appointment. Further details will be explained on inquiry.
We explicitly welcome applications from abroad. Under certain circumstances
part-time employment is possible. Disabled persons with corresponding
aptitude for the position will be favoured. The University strives to
increase its proportion of female staff and specifically encourages qualified
women to apply.
