Univ. Oxford: Call for Expressions of Interest,              Jill Hart Fund for Indo-Iranian Philology
[Forwarded at the request of Christopher Minkowski]
University of Oxford
Faculty of Oriental Studies and Faculty of Linguistics, Philology and 
Phonetics
Call for Expressions of Interest: Jill Hart Fund for Indo-Iranian 
Philology for applying to the Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship 
scheme
Please note, the following information outlines an internal 
pre-application selection process. It is not authorisation to make an 
application to the Leverhulme Trust through this Institution.
Leverhulme Scheme
The Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship scheme is aimed at those at a 
relatively early stage of their academic career but with a proven record 
of research. The Humanities Division at Oxford has a track record with 
the Trust, having received four fellowships over the past two years 
(with a number also awarded to other parts of the University). 
Fellowships are normally tenable for two or three years on a full-time 
basis. The Leverhulme eligibility criteria are that applicants must 
normally be under 35, not hold or have held a permanent academic 
position in a UK university or comparable institution, and have an 
awarded doctorate or equivalent research experience. (Applications from 
those aged 35 and over will be considered if they began their academic 
studies at a later age than is usual or if they have had a career change 
or break.)
The award requires matched funding from the institution and there is 
provision for personal research expenses of up to ?6k per year, if 
requested at the time of application. The Jill Hart Leverhulme Early 
Career Fellow will be appointed jointly by the Faculty of Oriental 
Studies and the Faculty of Linguistics, Philology and Phonetics, 
normally in the first three points of University Grade 7, salary range 
currently ?28,839 - ?30,594, depending on experience.
For full details of the Leverhulme scheme please see 
http://www.leverhulme.ac.uk/grants_awards/grants/early_career_fellowships/
and for further information about applying from outside the University 
of Oxford, please see the following page on the Humanities Division 
website:
http://www.humanities.ox.ac.uk/research/applying_from_outside_oxford/leverhulme_early_career_fellowships 
Call for Expressions of Interest
The Faculties of Oriental Studies and of Linguistics, Philology and 
Phonetics propose to use some of the income from the Jill Hart Fund to 
provide the matching funding for an application in the subject of 
Indo-Iranian Philology. They now invite expressions of interest from 
potential applicants in the relevant field who wish to be considered for 
the faculty?s support in applying to the Leverhulme scheme.
[The Jill Hart Fund for Indo-Iranian Philology at the University of 
Oxford supports elementary language teaching and learning, and 
philological teaching and study, of Vedic Sanskrit and of the languages 
belonging to the Iranian branch of Indo-European at their earliest 
attested stages.]
Expressions of interest must be received by noon on Friday 11 December 
2009 and should include the following:
1. a maximum two-page CV with education, publications, thesis title and 
examiners;
2. a maximum two-page statement of research (please note last year?s 
Leverhulme guidance stated: ?If an applicant wishes to remain in the 
same institution he or she should rehearse the academic and/or personal 
reasons for this.? If you are currently at Oxford, please include 
justification of why it is appropriate for you to remain here to hold an 
ECF, in the statement);
3. a 150 word abstract summarising the research for a general audience;
4. an indication of what additional research expenses may be claimed;
5. two letters of reference;
6. a note of who your mentor would be, having obtained his/her agreement 
in principle to act in this role, if the application is successful. Your 
mentor must be a member of either the Faculty of Oriental Studies or the 
Faculty of Linguistics, Philology and Phonetics.
Expressions of interest should be e-mailed to the office of the Faculty 
Board Secretary, Oriental Institute, Pusey Lane, Oxford, OX1 2LE, e-mail 
address orient at orinst.ox.ac.uk.
Interviews will not be held. A nominee will be selected by the 
Management Committee of the Jill Hart Fund, which consists of members of 
the Faculties of Oriental Studies and of Lingustics, Philology and 
Phonetics, and all applicants will be advised of the outcome of their 
application as soon as possible after the closing date.
Further information may be obtained from:
http://www.orinst.ox.ac.uk/ - Oriental Studies
http://www.ling-phil.ox.ac.uk/ - Linguistics, Philology and Phonetics
or by e-mail to the Chair of the Jill Hart Trust Management Committee, 
Professor C. Minkowski christopher.minkowski at orinst.ox.ac.uk
