[INDOLOGY] Hess' "SIDDHARTHA" in Sanskrit
Dear Dominik,
So far as I can determine from this thread, our colleague Jay Soni responded to the request not by distributing anyone's address, but merely by
forwarding the original message with the suggestion that we respond individually. His Netiquette thus seems to have been impeccable.
But thank you for the reminder.
best,
Matthew
Matthew Kapstein
Directeur d'?tudes,
Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes
Numata Visiting Professor of Buddhist Studies,
The University of Chicago
Sent: Saturday, January 04, 2014 3:20 AM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Hess' "SIDDHARTHA" in Sanskrit
The addresses of the members of the INDOLOGY forum are not public.  It is, in any circumstances, a violation of internet Netiquette<http://indology.info/email/email-rfc-1855/> to distribute other people's email addresses.
While this Siddhartha translation will be interesting to many Sanskrit scholars, the forced distribution by wrongly shared email addresses is absolutely the wrong way to share the work.  Most people will be angry that their email address has been given to a distributor without their permission, and correspondingly unhappy to receive this work.  It will create the opposite of the intended impression.
I would ask all members of the INDOLOGY list to remember that it is a violation of the list's terms to distribute other members' email addresses.
Dominik Wujastyk
INDOLOGY committee
On 3 January 2014 16:47, <soni at staff.uni-marburg.de<mailto:soni at staff.uni-marburg.de>> wrote:
Message passed on to you on behalf Muni Sheelchandrasuriji:
"I am happy to inform you that one of my disciples has translated Herman Hess' classic novel "SIDDHARTHA" into Sanskrit from its English translation by HILDA ROSNER.
We wish to send a copy of this translation to Sanskrit scholars and Universities in Europe/America. Would you please provide us the names and email address of scholars and universities who might be interested in having the translation?"
If Sanskrit readers would like to take advantage of this generous offer and have a copy of the  translation please write to Muniji directly at:
sheelchandrasuriji at yahoo.com<mailto:sheelchandrasuriji at yahoo.com> with a Cc to mahavir2400 at gmail.com<mailto:mahavir2400 at gmail.com>
With best wishes,
Jay Soni
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
http://listinfo.indology.info
