From josephine.brill at gmail.com  Sat Jan 18 17:37:25 2014
From: josephine.brill at gmail.com (Jo Brill)
Date: Sat, 18 Jan 14 12:37:25 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] call for papers: workshop on Christianity in South Asia
Message-ID: <CAMfMGiO0bfpcFC0acnxwfEGy6_zX0ZGH1ykhHQoiOAAWTca1CQ@mail.gmail.com>

I was asked by Iliyana Angelova, one of the workshop organizers, to share
this call for papers with the Indology list.

Best regards to all,
Jo

----------------------------------------

Inter-disciplinary workshop on
?Christianity in South Asia: cultural and historical interactions?
organised with the generous support of the South Asia Research Cluster,
Wolfson College, University of Oxford

17 May 2014
Wolfson College, University of Oxford

Conveners:
Iliyana Angelova (ISCA, University of Oxford)
Ina Zharkevich (ODID, University of Oxford)

Short abstract:
The workshop will create an opportunity for post-fieldwork PhD students and
early-career researchers working on Christianity in South Asia to come
together in a shared platform and discuss their ideas and research. The
workshop aims to foster inter-disciplinary research collaborations between
workshop participants as well as increase public awareness of the growing
relevance of Christianity-related studies to contemporary South Asian
scholarship. Contributions are welcome from any discipline in the social
sciences and humanities, particularly, but not exclusively, from the
disciplines of social anthropology, history, South Asian studies,
development studies and religious studies.

Paper proposals should include a title, an abstract of 250-300 words and a
brief personal biography of the presenter, including department and
university affiliation as well as year of study (for PhD students).

Deadline for submission of abstracts: 20 February 2014.
Please email all submissions to SAchristianity.workshop at gmail.com.

Successful applicants will be notified by 30 March and expected to submit
full papers by 30 April for pre-circulation to discussants.
Unfortunately, the organisers cannot provide any financial assistance
towards travel and accommodation costs.


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20140118/0b718f8f/attachment.htm>

