[INDOLOGY] MSS in Sarasvati Bhavan Library
Yes, the Sarasvatibhavan library has a history of difficulty.  My personal experience, from the late 1969's on, is that one must know someone directly connected with the library to have anything done.  Laxmi Narayan Tiwari, when he was librarian, was extremely helpful in letting me have access to manuscripts and later librarians also helped me because of my association with Tiwari and R. K. Sharma when he was Vice Chancellor.  I too once left a sum of money to have manuscripts microfilmed and sent, without any quick action.  It was only through the intervention of Dr. Nambiar, of the American Institute of Indian Studies, who personally went and saw to it that the manuscripts were copied, then sent them on to me, that I was able to get copies to work on outside.  This situation has continued.  It is, however, understandable that great caution is taken by the authorities.  At one time, it was discovered that some manuscripts has disappeared, apparently stolen and sold to some one (or persons) outside.  The UP government then sealed the library, literally with a large padlock with a was seal.  At that time, I think in the late seventies and early eighties, once more through friends, I was able to consult manuscripts, but only with a police escort accompanying me and sitting opposite me while I read.  As for the Indira Gandhi centre in Delhi, I found this most disappointing.  I wanted some K?tantra manuscripts that were in the Sarasvatibhavan.  At the time, the latter was closed again.  In Delhi, I was informed that, although they had microfilm copies of the manuscripts I wished to consult, they could not allow this until the Vice Chancellor of the Sampurnanand Sanskrit Vishvavidyalay gave his permission in writing; this did not come through.  What the use can be of having duplicate copies of microfilms in Delhi, then, is beyond me, and I gave up.  So, I share the frustration of scholars but do not see any quick development in the offing.  George Cardona 
On Feb 3, 2014, at 8:54 AM, Madhav Deshpande wrote:
