 1148?1459). From the Pen of Jonar?ja, Court Pa??it to Sul??n Zayn
al-??bid?n.
Critically Edited with an Annotated Translation, Indexes and Maps. [Studia
Indologica Universitatis Halensis. 7].
Halle: Universit?tsverlag Halle-Wittenberg 2014. pp. 330, 2 Maps. ISBN
978-3-86977-88-8
Description
Commissioned by Sul??n Zayn al-??bid?n to carry on Kalha?a?s R?jatara?gi??,
Pa??it Jonar?ja was the first to compose another R?jatara?gi?? in
continuation. Jonar?ja?s work covers the period of Hindu rule in Ka?m?r
from AD 1148 until its decline in AD 1339 (Ko?? Dev?) and the transition to
Islamic sovereignty exercised by the ??h M?r dynasty. His account, couched
in poetical language, breaks off in AD 1459, the year of his death. The
latter half of Jonar?ja?s chronicle focuses on the three Sul??ns of Ka?m?r,
Sikandar ??h and his sons ?Al? ??h and Zayn al-??bid?n, whose lives he had
recorded for the most part as an eyewitness. The causes and circumstances
accompanying the Islamization of the valley from AD 1339 onward are
accordingly depicted in a comparatively detailed manner. The present
critical edition of Jonar?ja was prepared mainly from ??rad? manuscripts,
which have only recently emerged, and from the pool of variant readings
reported by Srikanth Kaul (1967). It comprises all additional and
substitutional stanzas of Pseudo-Jonar?ja and is accompanied by an
annotated translation that also includes a rendering of Pseudo-Jonar?ja?s
text, translated here for the first time.The book comes with a
R?jatara?gi?? research bibliography, comprehensive indexes of contemporary
personal names and toponyms along with their geographic coordinates. An
image of Sul??n Zayn?s founding stone of his artificial island (La?k?) in
the Volur Lake and four maps with historical sites of central importance to
events and personalities as portrayed by Jonar?ja conclude the volume.
?
Further information and orders:?
?
http://www.universitaetsverlag-halle-wittenberg.de/english/studia-indologica/kingship-in-kasmir-ad-1148-1459.html
?
?
Kindly regarding,
?
Walter Slaje
Prof. Dr. Walter Slaje
Hermann-L?ns-Str. 1
D-99425 Weimar
Deutschland
Ego ex animi mei sententia spondeo ac polliceor
studia humanitatis impigro labore culturum et provecturum
non sordidi lucri causa nec ad vanam captandam gloriam,
sed quo magis veritas propagetur et lux eius, qua salus
humani generis continetur, clarius effulgeat.
Vindobonae, die XXI. mensis Novembris MCMLXXXIII.
