=?utf-8?Q?Re:_[INDOLOGY]_Periya_Tirumo=E1=B8=BBi_8.2.2?=
Here is a literal translation of Ku?untokai 106 by Kapilar.
In his land, the white roots spreading on the mountain from the dun-colored (i.e. nondescript) runners of the i??i
look like waterfalls descending from a hill.
The words of his heart that holds no malice
have come (to me), friend,
and (I took them) as fire takes ghee/oil (OR they were like fire when ghee/oil is poured on it).
(Now) I must send a messenger to say
that I am the same as when we became (or were) lovers (or were married).
Here are two possible interpretations that I see:
The image of ghee/oil feeding a fire means that his words, which she did not expect, made her suddenly experience relief and passion.  In this case, Palaniappan is correct in interpreting ma?a as union and not marriage, especially as this appears to be a kuri?ci poem dealing with premarital love.  The messenger is likely to be a P??a?, though this is not expressed, and the situation, as in other ku?i?ci poems, is that the hero who used to come and see the heroine secretly at night is no longer coming.  The heroine becomes distressed but is suddenly heartened when a messenger (P??a??) comes and tells her that the hero still cares for her.  She immediately (like oil feeding fire) feels her passion and love flare up and wishes to send a message to the hero to tell him that she still cares and feels the same as when they were lovers.
HOWEVER there is a problem with this analysis, and that is the image of the runners and roots of the i??i tree, which clearly are intended to suggest that things are not as they seem.  That would suggest that we take ?which holds no malice? as sarcastic and the image of the fire taking the ghee/oil as one of anger flaring up (following the suggestion of the Kazhagam commentator, C?macuntara??r).  In that case, ma?a could mean ?marry? and the last line could mean ?the same as when we married.?  In this interpretation, the poem, in spite of its ku?i?ci imagery, is really a marutam poem and the hero, who has been with his courtesans, has sent the P??a? off to conciliate his angry wife.  She hears his words sanctimoniously describing the hero?s pure heart and sarcastically echoes them, concluding that she will send the messenger to tell him that while he has changed and is unfaithful to her, she has not changed.  She wishes to make the hero feel guilty.
Of these two interpretations, I think the second one is likely to be the correct one, as otherwise the image at the beginning of the poem does not make sense.  The point of the image would appear to be that just as the root of the rather ugly and parasitic i??i tree looks like a beautiful waterfall, the hero?s reprobate heart appears pure.  I don?t think the poem can be understood without discovering the intent of the image at its beginning, and that would seem to mean that this has to be a marutam poem.  It?s worth noting that Kapilar is one of the greatest Indian poets ? he is unlikely to have put in an image at the beginning of a poem that has no relation to its content.
n?? nil? mu??attu ni??u iva? n?kki???;
k??um?, Ka??apuram! e??u k???i???;
p??a??r ti??am irukka, i?i, iva?
n??um?? na??u na??u Na?aiy?rarkk?!
A literal translation:
She stood on the open space with its long moonlight and looked.
And she pointed asking ?Can one see the city of Ka??a? (Krishna) (from here)??
The excellent P??a? was firm, and now will she feel ashamed?
A fine thing indeed is this for the person from Na?aiy?r (Vi??u)!
It would seem that the hero/Vi??u is leading the heroine on, and that the P??a? is insisting on the hero?s uprightness.  The last line suggests that the hero (or Vi??u) is not as upright as the P??a? suggests.  This makes sense as a marutam poem, I think ? especially given the last line, which seems to me to have the connotation that the hero is not being honest with the heroine.  The poem has two perspectives ? the marutam situation in which the hero is with his courtesans but tries to conciliate the heroine by telling her he is a good person (which he is not, since he is visiting courtesans) and the religious one, in which God is playing with the soul of the devotee and is hard to get.  A notable thing about this is that P??a??r is made respective, suggesting that, as the commentary says, the P??a? symbolizes the ?c?ryas whose teachings bring the souls of others to Vi??u.  Perhaps the intent is that the ?c?ryas are firm in their teaching, and so devotees who hear them should not feel discouraged or ashamed, even though (last line) Vi??u is elusive.
There is a lot of speculation here. I believe that the Ku?untokai poem is probably a marutam poem about the hero visiting his courtesans and the same is true of the verse from the Periya Tirumo?i ? but it?s a tough call, and I would certainly see Palaniappan?s analysis as possible.
George
On Feb 18, 2014, at 9:40 PM, Palaniappa at aol.com wrote:
