(My last post on this subject).  I don't agree.  The aerial roots of the fig do not root in stone, as far as I can tell.  The word for ?stone? is kal, which can also mean ?mountain,? ?hill.?  Most likely the poet means that the aerial roots of the fig (which are brown) reach down on a hill and find stone.  Unable to root, they dry out, turn a lighter shade and spread.  The image at the beginning of the poem is an u??u?ai, and in such cases the comparison is not to one quality (e.g. moonlike face) but to an action or fact (roots like waterfalls).  The point here, clearly I believe, is that what appears to be one thing is something else ? the messenger insists that the hero is good but he actually is not just as it looks as if there are waterfalls in the hero?s land (an image of prosperity and fertility) but what appear to be waterfalls are only the whitening roots of a parasitic plant.  Often, when the formula ??n??a?? (man from a land where?.), this sort of u??u?ai is intended.  I am pasting in a much more elaborate instance of an u??u?ai in a marutam poem (about the courtesan).  Those who work with Sanskrit suggestion may find it interesting, I think.  George Hart
Akan????u 46. Marutam
The friend refuses the request of the hero who asks her to allow him to see the heroine.  (This does not seem to fit the poem, which appears to be the words of the heroine.)
In your town, a red-eyed buffalo gets tired of being penned in mud
and at night, when everyone is asleep, breaks the rope holding him,
opens the sharp-thorned fence with his horns
and, as the fish all flee from him on the water-filled field,
stirs up the va??ai flowers with their lovely throats	5
and eats the cool lotuses while the bees buzz inside them.
Who are you that we should be angry with you?
Others brought a woman to our house, her dark, falling hair
more lovely than a line of descending rain clouds,
and said that you had made love to her.  We have nothing to say about that?	10
may you live well, my lord.  I am as beautiful as A???r
thick with stacks of paddy, city of victorious Ce?iya?
whose armies have shining spears that cut through and kill
in fierce battle with enemies and their elephants, yet
if the bright bangles on my arms must grow loose, let them.	15
Go, my lord, no one will keep you here.
A???r Na?mullaiy?r
OC construes the suggested meaning (u??urai) of this as follows: ?The buffalo has turned its shed into a mire with its water and dung, broken its bond, broken open the fence that is protecting the field with its horns, stirred up the swamp morning glories that surround lotuses so that fish run away, and investigated the lotuses that are closed and unflowering with bees (inside).  Like that, you have made her who is protected by you other (i.e. ruined her beauty as she is distraught), broken the bond of shame, broken open the fence that protects the courtesan with the horn of your bard (who serves as a messenger to the courtesan), stirred up the mothers of those courtesans so that the friends who stay with them flee, and been a person who, bursting with egotism, enjoys women who do not welcome you.?
5. Va??ai is the swamp morning glory.  Its flowers have the same shape as ordinary morning glories.
6. ?Bees buzz inside  them? is va??u ?tu pa?i malar, literally ?the cool flowers where bees hum (or feed).?  Because it is night, presumably the lotuses have closed and trapped the bees.
10. ?Had made love to her? is vatuvai ayarnta?ai, which could also mean ?had married her.?
On Feb 20, 2014, at 8:15 PM, palaniappa at aol.com wrote:
