[INDOLOGY] call for papers
Dear colleagues,
Let me?as a member of the editorial board?hereby share the call for papers of the A?ION journal of religious studies. 
About
A?ION is a new, peer-reviewed English language journal, published under the aegis of the E?tv?s Lor?nd University, Budapest. A?ION focuses on the examination of religious phenomena and key aspects of religious studies; scholarly work that is theoretically well-founded and based on philological or other accepted methods; original work that has not yet been published in an international scholarly language. 
Call for papers
AGION awaits research articles, editions (with translations) of textual sources, and book and media reviews for publication in compliance with its aims and scopes. Research articles are expected to be about 8?12 pages (counting ca. 400?450 words/3000?3200 characters per standard page), but works of differing length are also accepted. Preliminary enquiries should be made concerning articles of much greater length. Reviews are expected to be about 2?3 pages in length, but if justifiable (in the case of significant, or problematic works) longer submissions are accepted.
Deadline
Works to be published in the first volume (containing issues 1?4) are expected until 31st July 2014, but (in respect of the summer holidays) authors are requested to post articles by 30thJune 2014?to ease the process of peer-review.
More about submissions and policies here. 
Submission e-mails
To avoid the misplacement of articles please address all works directly to the Editor-in-chief and send a copy to the Editorial Assistant as well.
If you wish you are welcome to discuss with me the submission of your article before sending it to the editor-in-chief.
Yours sincerely
Csaba Dezs?
A?ION A Journal of Religious Studies
hagion.elte.hu
Csaba Dezs?, PhD
Senior Lecturer
Department of Indo-European Studies
E?tv?s Lor?nd University
H-1088 Budapest
M?zeum krt. 6-8/A.
Hungary
tel.: +36-1-4116500 / ext. 5368
e-mail: dezso.csaba at btk.elte.hu
