[INDOLOGY] Publication Announcement: Lord Siva's Song
Dear Colleagues,
I am happy to announce the publication of my new book, *Lord Siva's Song:
The Isvara Gita*, on SUNY Press. I hope it will not only be of interest to
specialists, but also be of use in graduate and undergraduate classes on
Hinduism, Saivism, and the history of yoga. My editor tells me that an
affordable paperback edition will be available in January 2015.
A sample is available for download here:
http://www.sunypress.edu/p-5850-lord-sivas-song.aspx
Best,
Andrew
Andrew J. Nicholson
Associate Professor
SUNY Stony Brook
Stony Brook, NY 11794-5343
(631) 632-4030
http://philosophicalrasika.com/
Lord Siva's Song: The Isvara Gita
Translated with an introduction and notes by Andrew J. Nicholson
Summary
A translation of the ??vara G?t?, a parallel text to the Bhagavad G?t? that
promotes religious inclusion.
While the Bhagavad G?t? is an acknowledged treasure of world spiritual
literature, few people know a parallel text, the ??vara G?t?. This
lesser-known work is also dedicated to a god, but in this case it is ?iva,
rather than K???a, who is depicted as the omniscient creator of the world.
Andrew J. Nicholson?s Lord ?iva?s Song makes this text available in English
in an accessible new translation. A work of both poetry and philosophy, the
??vara G?t? builds on the insights of Pata?jali?s Yoga S?tra and
foreshadows later developments in tantric yoga. It deals with the
pluralistic religious environment of early medieval India through an
exploration of the relationship between the gods ?iva and Vi??u. The work
condemns sectarianism and violence and provides a strategy for
accommodating conflicting religious claims in its own day and in our own.
?This is an excellent introduction to, and a sound scholarly translation
of, a foundational text. Andrew J. Nicholson is a first-rate scholar.? ?
Andrew O. Fort, author of J?vanmukti in Transformation: Embodied Liberation
in Advaita and Neo-Vedanta
Andrew J. Nicholson is Associate Professor of Asian and Asian American
Studies at Stony Brook University, State University of New York. He is the
author of Unifying Hinduism: Philosophy and Identity in Indian Intellectual
History.
Table of Contents
Acknowledgments
Introduction
Translation
1. The Arrival of the Gods
2. The Changeless Self
3. The Unmanifest Lord
4. The God of Gods
5. The Lord?s Dance
6. The Glory of Lord ?iva
7. The Master of Beasts
8. The Hidden Lord
9. Brahman?s Powers
10. Brahman and the Lord
11. The Highest Yoga
Commentarial Notes
Sanskrit Text
List of Concordances
Glossary of Sanskrit Names and Terms
Bibliography
