[INDOLOGY] Hitler and MLBD
Dear Colleagues,
 I am afraid that the comments by Prof Magnone cannot go without
clarification.
There is a deep and fundamental difference between suppressing books and
thoughts--which requires coercive power, in principle of the state or a
semi-state apparatus--and working actively to discourage distribution of
ideas with which one does not agree. I would insist that this distinction
is absolutely basic! (Yes, I would take this to its logical conclusion, as
many would not, but I leave that for another day): I do not have to
*suppress* anything to say to a movie theatre: if you show violent films, I
will not patronize your establishment, I will discourage others from doing
so, and I will pay for advertisements in the newspaper to discourage
others. This has nothing to do with suppression, it is an exercise of
freedom of choice.
There is therefore absolutely nothing, logically or legally, of suppression
in writing to MLBD and saying: if you sell this, I won't allow you to sell
my book, I won't buy books from you, I will discourage others from buying
books from you. This, Prof Magnone, is what democracy is all about, this is
what freedom is all about. I have a right to buy from whom I wish; anyone
has a right to (try to) sell to whomever they wish, but I can tell them: I
won't buy from you, so if it is important to you to sell to *me* (in case,
me = we Indologists, or as it seems at least some of us), then you might
want to rethink what you do.
Aside from one or two perhaps not entirely serious remarks earlier in the
discussion of using the Doniger law to attack MLBD, I don't think
anyone--and certainly not I--want to use anything remotely approaching
recourse to the courts to stop the distribution of this book. It is rather
akin to saying: you can invite whomever you like to your party, but if you
want to see me there, then make sure that you dont invite Mr X. I won't be
in the same room with him; you choose whom you would like to see present.
Cordially, Jonathan Silk
On Wed, May 21, 2014 at 7:53 AM, Paolo Magnone <paolo.magnone at unicatt.it>wrote:
J. Silk
Instituut Kern / Universiteit Leiden
Leiden University Institute for Area Studies, LIAS
Johan Huizinga Building, Room 1.37
Doelensteeg 16
2311 VL Leiden
The Netherlands
copies of my publications may be found at
http://www.buddhismandsocialjustice.com/silk_publications.html
