[INDOLOGY] Hitler and MLBD
Dear Friends, For me the issue is not that someone publishes Mein Kampf, it
is that MLBD should publish it. I do agree that the text should not be
pulped--it should be available for historical education and research, but
it is questionable when it is being marketed because of its potential
popularity and commercial viability. This is the important point and what
is slightly chilling about the whole thing, particularly in view of the
very strong appeal of fascist ideology in India today, if not Nazism in
particular. I think it is worthwhile that we as scholars ask MLBD to try to
maintain its dignity and integrity as at least a halfway serious publisher,
by not pandering to what is most vile in Indian society. I don't think we
should go as far as to ask that Hitler's writings be universally pulped, we
should only demand that they not form a part of the marketing agenda of a
press with which we have been historically associated and continue to
associate ourselves. So we are certainly right in demanding that MLBD not
publish Hitler, and I think we can use this opportunity to ask that MLBD
not make other stupid decisions about what it peddles. It is o.k. for the
press to try to be somewhat commercially viable, but not at the expense of
all dignity. It has some responsibility as a bastion of Indological and
historical publishing. If they publish Hitler without getting some flack
from us, then next it will be Savarkar and other Hindutva sludge.
Thus I think we should broaden our criticisms of MLBD. I have personally
been sending Mr. Jain angry letters for years, not only about the titles,
but about the miserable condition of their bookshops, and the incompetence
and rudeness of staff who are obviously nepotism-spawned stooges. His
responses have been without exception very disappointing exercises in
fatuous self-congratulation.
There has been a general decline in Indological titles at MLBD for some
time, in favor of really bad, unscientific new age stuff. It is o.k. if
they publish some slightly new agey stuff, but they have thrown all
standards out the window for some time now, and I think they really lack
competent, educated, and discerning staff. This at a time when there is no
shortage of highly educated and yet jobless Indians. I know that publishers
have to find a way to survive, but I feel so sad that the very publisher
that has provided me so much access to Sanskrit texts and other matter for
decades, should disgrace itself like this.
Let's keep up the heat, but focus it not on Hitler and Nazism per se, but
on MLBD and its responsibility both to us and itself.
On Tue, May 20, 2014 at 3:50 AM, Robert Zydenbos
<zydenbos at uni-muenchen.de>wrote:
Jesse Ross Knutson PhD
Assistant Professor of Sanskrit and Bengali, Department of Indo-Pacific
Languages and Literatures
University of Hawai'i at M?noa
452A Spalding
