[INDOLOGY] sad day
Speaking of ?the best? ? any democratic forum of scholars would certainly
welcome the request made earlier for more transparency, particularly in
terms of the precise number of members they (unknowingly) communicate with.
As to the petition as such, which was launched by a member of the committee
of our list, a brief check just made reveals a number of 62 signatories put
under the general label of ?success? ("Erfolg" on the German site):
http://www.change.org/de/Petitionen/motilal-banarsidass-stop-publishing-and-selling-hitler-s-mein-kampf?utm_campaign=petition_created&utm_medium=email&utm_source=guides
We need of course to know how many of us actually are on this list, as it
is always only the total of a certain fraction that can be used as a
criterion for assessing something as ?success? (or not). Since the petition
was made an agenda of this, and only this, list, members may justifiably
expect unrestricted statistical information to gauge its results.
It was sad to witness how the juste milieu privilege themselves by claiming
sovereignty over the accessibility, distribution and interpretation of a
book in an independent state where they cannot claim citizenship, and
arrogantly try to lecture their colleagues together with a publishing house
from India very much after the colonial manner of educating their (former)
subjects. Those schoolmarmishly disciplined could now with the same right
demand a demonstration of the higher morale preached in this list by
addressing the committee with the request for something rather simple,
though essential in the given context, to wit, democratic transparency.
WS
Prof. Dr. Walter Slaje
Hermann-L?ns-Str. 1
D-99425 Weimar
Deutschland
Ego ex animi mei sententia spondeo ac polliceor
studia humanitatis impigro labore culturum et provecturum
non sordidi lucri causa nec ad vanam captandam gloriam,
sed quo magis veritas propagetur et lux eius, qua salus
humani generis continetur, clarius effulgeat.
Vindobonae, die XXI. mensis Novembris MCMLXXXIII.
2014-05-22 14:29 GMT+02:00 Rosane Rocher <rrocher at sas.upenn.edu>:
