[INDOLOGY] Hitler and MLBD
It has been said by me and others that the central argument here is that
MLBD as an Indological publisher owned by Jains has no good justification
for publishing *Mein Kampf*.  MK is not an Indological work (and indology
is MLBD's main  business identity) and it is a work that promotes cruelty
(MLBD is owned by a pious Jain family).
Robert, I do not agree with most of your points.
It is indeed true that Bavaria generally discourages the publication of MK
nationally and internationally, although there are exceptions and
borderline cases, like Israel.  These exceptions do not represent the main
policy of the Bavarian govt.  The critical edition is a special case, with
special imperatives and bracketting (Horizont) and it is controversial.  It
is not suitable for making the general case about the policies of the
Bavarian govt., which are clear enough.  The internal controversy precisely
shows how uncomfortable the Bavarian govt. is about publishing this work,
even the crit. ed.  As we also know, other signs of Nazism are criminal
offences in Germany (SS runes, Hakenkreuz, salutes, slogans, holocaust
denial aimed at incitement, etc.; *Strafgezetzbuch* para 86a, apparently).
The commercialism argument scarcely warrants a reply.  Should MLBD also
sell heroin or pornography because they could make a profit?  Ethics are
involved.
Consistency: you exactly invert the truth.  If the Indian Penal Code can be
used to prevent the publication of relatively harmless academic books, then
let it also be used for its original purpose, to prevent the publication of
genuine hate literature.  Let the law of the land be used to do some
good.
As for freedom of speech, yes that is a good argument.  However, MK is
widely available in India already, and I am not arguing with other
publishers, only with MLBD (Indology argument).
Effectiveness: "The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for
good men to do nothing." -- Edmund Burke
The fact that Hitler is popular in some quarters in India does not absolve
those of us who know the horrors about Hitler and Nazism in European
history from opposing such views.  Especially as they are often based on
almost complete ignorance.  In my experience, when I have conversations
with friends in India about the European experiences during the two World
Wars, they are often horrified and had no idea beforehand about the
Holocaust and other facts.
Superfluousness: Yes the book is not on the front page of MLBD's website
today.  But they are apparently still selling Mein Kampf, together with a
DVD of a film.  It seems that they have changed the edition that they are
selling, or at least the covers illustration.  I am not yet sure about the
meaning of this change.
There is nothing "unfair" in protesting to MLBD about their decision to
publish MK.  Why unfair?  Why should one keep silent in the face of a bad
act, under the name of fairness?    "Discriminatory"?  How?  Because we
haven't written to every publisher?  Why should we?  I have written to MLBD
because they publish some of my books and because I work with them and know
(and like) them and because they are a major presence in Indological
publishing.  "Ideologically ineffective"?  I don't think so.  It is not
ideologically ineffective to make an argument against something that one
considers bad.  It would be ineffective to do nothing.  "Not Indological?"
Well, that's point, isn't it?   Why should an Indological publisher promote
Mein Kampf?  Or do you mean that we shouldn't discuss this issue because it
isn't Indological?  "Publicitywise counter-productive"?  We don't yet know,
do we?  MLBD has removed the advertisement from their website's front page
already, within 24 hours.  Maybe they will feel moved to stop selling the
book altogether?  The future will tell.  "Superfluous anyway"?   You want
MLBD to sell Mein Kampf?
Sincerely,
Dominik
On Tue, May 20, 2014 at 3:50 PM, Robert Zydenbos
<zydenbos at uni-muenchen.de>wrote:
