[INDOLOGY] International fellowship for historians of mathematics at Chennai Mathematical Institute Nov/Dec 2014
Call for Proposals: RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS at Chennai Mathematical Institute, India
during the CMI History of  Mathematics Season (17 November to 14 December 2014)
The History of Astronomical and Mathematical Sciences in India (HAMSI) Working Group is dedicated to fostering and disseminating research in the history of Indian exact sciences (including astronomy, mathematics, and related subjects), and integrating it into the history of mathematics in general.  Such research includes not only investigations of primary sources, such as editions, translations and/or technical commentaries of important works, but also surveys and thematic investigations (on subjects such as history of trigonometry or geocentric astronomy, for instance), overviews intended for nonspecialist and student audiences, and historiographical reviews. HAMSI is supported by a five-year grant from the Royal Society of New Zealand and is coordinated by its founding members Dr Clemency Montelle (School of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Canterbury, New Zealand) and Prof Kim Plofker (Department of Mathematics, Union College, NY, USA).
To this end, HAMSI announces three research fellowships for visiting international scholars during the annual history of mathematics season at Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI), Chennai, India, 17 November to 14 December 2014.  CMI (http://www.cmi.ac.in) is a center of excellence for teaching and research in the mathematical sciences and is funded by both private and government sources with strong national and international scholarly networks.
These fellowships are intended to support international researchers in the history of mathematical sciences who seek to increase their acquaintance with Indian developments in this field and their relation to scientific traditions elsewhere. Applicants' proposed plans of scholarship and/or study during the fellowship period must have some connection to the history of mathematical and/or astral sciences in India during any time period over the last two millennia.  Researchers may come from any discipline: e.g.,  history, mathematics, history of mathematics, mathematics education, philosophy, history of science.
The fundamental goal is to encourage researchers, primarily non-Indologists, to develop greater familiarity with Indic scientific traditions and help integrate new research about them into the study and teaching of history of mathematical/astral sciences in general outside India.  Possible projects along these lines could include, but are  not limited to, the following: a chapter on Indian mathematics as part of a general  history of mathematics textbook; an article on the historical development of a particular mathematical technique or concept which includes a strong Indian component; examining the work of a particular Indian author in translation; acquiring some knowledge of Indic languages and/or scripts for the purpose of studying Indian exact sciences.
The history of mathematics season will include lectures, seminars and minicourses with visiting scholars and students and will culminate in a conference with broader participation from historians of mathematics at other institutions in India and overseas.  Drs Montelle and Plofker will be in residence at CMI during the fellowship period, and other faculty at  CMI and other local libraries and research centers will also be at hand for guidance and advice.
During their fellowship period, researchers will:
- carry out  their proposed research plan
- give one 50min specialist seminar and/or run a short workshop for  CMI students and faculty on any topic within history of mathematics
- take part  in a day-long workshop and the end-of-season conference
Applications consisting of a one-page plan of  proposed research and an academic CV should be sent in English to  Dr Clemency Montelle by email (clemency.montelle at canterbury.ac.nz<mailto:clemency.montelle at canterbury.ac.nz>) by Monday, 30 June 2014.
Please don't hesitate to contact us (clemency.montelle at canterbury.ac.nz<mailto:clemency.montelle at canterbury.ac.nz>, Kim_Plofker at alumni.brown.edu<mailto:Kim_Plofker at alumni.brown.edu>) with any questions.
Dr Clemency Montelle
http://www.math.canterbury.ac.nz/~c.montelle/
Department of Mathematics and Statistics
University of Canterbury | Te Whare Wananga o Waitaha
Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140
NEW ZEALAND
ph +64 3 364 2267
fax +64 3 364 2587
This email may be confidential and subject to legal privilege, it may
not reflect the views of the University of Canterbury, and it is not
guaranteed to be virus free. If you are not an intended recipient,
please notify the sender immediately and erase all copies of the message
and any attachments.
Please refer to http://www.canterbury.ac.nz/emaildisclaimer for more
information.
