From adheesh1 at gmail.com  Fri May 23 12:48:25 2014
From: adheesh1 at gmail.com (Adheesh Sathaye)
Date: Fri, 23 May 14 18:18:25 +0530
Subject: [INDOLOGY] In defense of MLBD
In-Reply-To: <044C4CE033BD474EBE2ACACE8E4B1D949C2F205E@UM-excdag-a02.um.gwdg.de>
Message-ID: <A407E63A-3D45-4075-902F-ECB9E511897A@gmail.com>

Dear Professor Gr?nendahl, (I have CC?ed the list, as other readers may have had the same questions),

As the member of the Indology committee on duty for this week, (and also working with a rather spotty internet connection in Pune at the moment), I would like to clarify a few details, lest there be some misunderstanding:

1) As far as I am able to determine, no formal request has been made by you to the Indology administrative committee, who may be communicated with at the email address: ?indology-owner at list.indology.info?. Rather, you appear to have posted a query onto the list itself. For better results when wishing to communicate with the administrative committee, I would encourage you (and all other users) to write directly to us (at the email address indicated above) rather than make a public post. We are generally able to address queries within a week.

2) The fact is that this active thread has unfortunately coincided with some type of bandwidth problem on the Indology server. This has resulted in my being unable to access the administrative interface, through which I could have easily answered your query. I kindly ask for your patience.

3) The bandwidth issue has also rendered inoperative the individual user interfaces, and also I believe has resulted in a number of messages from valid users being bounced. I am hoping the problem will get rectified in due course.

With all best wishes,

Adheesh
----
Adheesh Sathaye
Department of Asian Studies
University of British Columbia

On May 23, 2014, at 15.59, Gruenendahl, Reinhold <gruenen at SUB.UNI-GOETTINGEN.DE> wrote:

> In view of this chronology and of Ellis' book, there can be little doubt that this "corruption of the humanities" (Ellis' title, quoted approvingly here!) has its roots in U.S. academia. Meanwhile, (presumed) social and political agendas are all over the place, in European humanities and elsewhere. In my view, the recent campaign on the INDOLOGY list shows that only too clearly. In the absence of reliable data -- my request to the INDOLOGY committee has so far remained unanswered -- I can only assume that the views expressed by the activists of this campaign do not represent those of the majority of list members, but those of a relatively small but vociferous punditocracy (or commentariat -- whatever seems more politically correct).










