[INDOLOGY] In defense of MLBD
In my understanding of the social role of the academia, academics and other
intellectuals have the right (and even the obligation) to address the
society as a whole or social institutions (among which I would also count
publishers and book-sellers) whenever they feel the need to do so. This
right, in my view, exists irrespective of the nationality of those who
address and of those who are addressed. As far as I can see, many German
colleagues were happy when people from foreign countries signed the
petitions for maintaining Indological chairs at, for example, Berlin.
Even if one takes into account that different cultures have different
values, there are universal human rights. In the present case, i.e. with
regard to the question of how to judge the advertising and distribution of
Hitler?s ?Mein Kampf? in India by to MLBD, obviously two human rights
oppose each other: (article 1): All human beings are born free and equal in
dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should
act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood and (article 19)
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression.
I think that as members of institutions that are designed for research and
teaching we (me included) are full entitled to communicate to MLBD that it
is a mistake to advertise and offer Hitler?s work for sale, because (1.)
the intention of the work is to violate human dignity, and (2.) its
advertisement and distribution actually contributes to the violation of the
dignity of millions of innocent victims and their descendents.
In my judgement, and I think that this is a general consensus of the
society in Germany today, this weights much heavier than the right of
freedom of expression.
Moreover, I would like to use this opportunity to express my uneasiness
with an argument that came up in the recent discussion. In view of the
dimension of the crimes that Germans have committed during the Nazi rule,
any attempt to relativize the impact of ?Mein Kampf? for the Nazi movement
by even comparing it with, for example, the work of Heidegger is out of
place.
Philipp Maas
2014-05-20 16:48 GMT+02:00 Walser, Joseph <Joseph.Walser at tufts.edu>:
Dr. Philipp A. Maas
Universit?tsassistent
Institut f?r S?dasien-, Tibet- und Buddhismuskunde
Universit?t Wien
Spitalgasse 2-4, Hof 2, Eingang 2.1
A-1090 Wien
?sterreich
univie.academia.edu/PhilippMaas
