[INDOLOGY] Talk at Nehru Centre of Indian High Commission in London on African elites in India
NEHRU CENTRE Indian High Commission 
TALK: East African rulers, generals and elites in India 
DATE: June 3 TIME: 6:30 PM 
Kenneth X. Robbins, a psychiatrist, is a collector and independent scholar with an interest in Maharajas, Nawabs, Sultans, and other Indian rulers as well as minority groups in South Asia. He has curated numerous exhibitions, organized scholarly conferences, and published many articles on Indian history, paintings, photographs, art, religion, medicine, numismatics, and philately. He is editing a study of the hundreds of princely states in what is now Gujarat. His book African Elites in India is the basis for a New York Public Library Schomburg Center for Black Culture traveling exhibition, which is currently at the Museum for African American History in Boston. It will open at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts in New Delhi in October. He hopes to find other venues in Africa and elsewhere. He has been working on an exhibition and eight volumes dealing with Jews in India. The first volume Western Jews in India has been published and the next book Jews and the Indian National Art Project will be launched this fall. 
Kenneth Robbins has gathered together everything from many old miniature paintings and photographs to numismatic and philatelic materials to document the unparalleled story of Africans, who attained the pinnacle of political and military authority on another continent. East Africans have distinguished themselves in India as rulers, military commanders, prime ministers, queens, courtiers, and architectural patrons in India. The Habshi Sultans of Bengal and the Nawabs of Janjira and Sachin were all Africans. Malik Ambar, the great strongman of Ahmednagar, and the many African prime ministers of Bijapur left their mark. The Sidi Sayyid Mosque has become the symbol of Ahmedabad. African patronage produced splendid forts, mosques, and tombs. 
NEHRU CENTRE 
Indian High Commission 
8 South Audley Street 
London W1K 1HF 
Telephone and Fax 
T: (020) 7 491 3567 T: (020) 7 493 2019 F: (020) 7 409 3360 
Directions 
Tube 
The nearest tube stations are: (1) Green Park - Jubilee, Victoria, Piccadilly lines. (2) Hyde Park Corner ? Piccadilly line only and Bond Street ? Central & Jubilee lines. 
Bus 
There are frequent buses running from Victoria Station. You require buses headed towards Marble Arch (73, 436) and you should get off opposite the Hilton Hotel, cross over the main road and head towards South Audley Street. Please consult the map for further information.
