Readers of this list may be interested in a new publication in the joint 
"Indologie" collection of the IFP (Institut Fran?ais de Pondich?ry) and 
EFEO (?cole Fran?aise d'Extr?me-Orient).
See details below and attached flyer
/The Archaeology of Bhakti I: Mathur? and Maturai, Back and Forth./
Edited by Emmanuel Francis & Charlotte Schmid, Collection Indologie n? 
125, Institut Fran?ais de Pondich?ry / Ecole fran?aise d?Extr?me-Orient, 
2014, xiii, 366 p.
Language: English. 1000 Rs (43 ?). ISBN (IFP): 978-81-8470-200-2. ISBN 
(EFEO): 978-2-85539-139-7.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction: Towards an Archaeology of Bhakti (Emmanuel Francis & 
Charlotte Schmid) -- Dharma, Yoga, and Viraha-Bhakti in
Buddhacarita and K???acarita (Tracy Coleman) -- Skanda/K?rttikeya and 
the Imperial Guptas: Coinage, Religionand Political
Ideology (4th-5th century CE) (C?dric Ferrier) -- Bhakti in its Infancy: 
Genealogy Matters in the Kail?san?tha of K??c?puram
(Charlotte Schmid) --Lak?m? and the Tigers: A Goddess in the Shadows 
(Padma Kaimal) -- ?Woe to Them!?: The ?aiva Curse
Inscription at Mah?balipuram (7th century CE) (Emmanuel Francis) -- A 
Medieval Tamil Poem on Bhakti: Tirupp?vaiby ?????
(Alexander Dubyanskiy) -- On the Non-V?lm?kian Sources of Kulac?kara 
??v?r?s?Mini-R?m?ya?a? (Suganya Anandakichenin) --
When Tradition Meets Archaeological Reality:The Site of Tiruccent?r 
(Val?rie Gillet) -- The Infant Kr???a in the Guruv?y?r Temple
with Particular Reference to the N?r?ya??ya of N?r?ya?abha??a (S.A.S. 
Sarma)?
VOLUME DESCRIPTION:
This volume ? the outcome of a workshop-cum-conference that took place
from 1st to 12th August 2011 in the Pondicherry Centre of the ?cole 
fran?aise d?Extr?me-Orient,? is an invitation to practise the
?archaeology of Bhakti? with the help of both textual and non-textual
sources.
Bhakti, broadly defined as an attitude, a strategy or a style of 
devotion ? one that may be intellectual, emotional or rooted in acts of 
worship?towards God or the Divine, manifests itself through the personal
voices of devotees as well as through the collective effort that 
constitutes the building of a temple. The ?archaeology of Bhakti? aims 
at correlating different realms of representation, such as texts and 
images, in order to illuminate the elusive, pan-Indian phenomenon of Bhakti.
The focus is on sources, agencies and layers. A special attention is 
given to inscriptions, which belong both to the realm of artefacts and 
to that of texts, and which help to distinguish royal demonstrations of 
Bhakti from local manifestations. In the realm of textual sources, 
?archaeology? is put to work to identify how literary conventions and
concepts have formed and been incorporated, layer upon layer, into a 
given composition.
After an introduction by the editors about the complexities of the 
concept and practices of Bhakti in the Indian world, essays by nine 
scholars explore the phenomena of Bhakti and their chronology from
different perspectives (textual, epigraphical, archaeological, 
iconographical). In the course of these explorations, the reader is
transported from the North to the South of the subcontinent, back and 
forth between Mathur? and Maturai.
Best wishes
