[INDOLOGY] Interview with the new ICHR Chairman
The question of Christian influence on the nineteenth century reformist
thought has been raised but there are some misconceptions about it.
There was not much of Christian influence on the reformist movement since
about 1850. In Bengal the Brahmo religous leader Keshub Chandra Sen sang to
the glory of the Christ but he was forsaken by mainstream Brahmos. Keshab
Candra was pragmatic. He wanted to remove possible obstacles to his own
missionary work. But Debendranath Tagore was against him. The main reformer
of Bengal, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, was an atheist. The Brahmo priest
Shivnath Shastri has narrated how Vidyasagar ridiculed a Christian
missionary who had come to covert him. The revolutionary Brahmabandhab
Upadhyay was Christian but he called himself 'Hindu Catholic'. The
reformist Arya Samajis of North India were strongly anti-Christian. There
was Western influence on the Prarthana Samaj of Western India but one
cannot discern specific Christian influence.
Among those who had really taken moral inspirational ideas from
Christianity one can count Mahatma Gandhi of the twentieth century but not
the leaders of the nineteenth century enlightenment movement. Gandhiji was
probably influenced by the ideas of Leo Tolstoy and some American thinkers.
But Gandhiji himself and  his followers consider themselves religious
minded Hindus
The missionaries were successful mainly in Central India and fringe areas
of the South. The intellectual movement, on the other hand, started with
religion but, with the exception of the Arya Samajis, it progressively
spoke for and leaned towards the secular way of life and thought. Religious
activities thrived among Hindu Missionaries - the Arya Samajis, the
Ramkrishna Mission, the Bharat Sevasram Sangha etc. They took the idea of
organized missionary activity from the Christian organizations but competed
with it in theology.
Best
DB
On Sun, Jul 13, 2014 at 9:42 PM, Bijlert, V.A. van <v.a.van.bijlert at vu.nl>
wrote:
