[INDOLOGY] Fwd: Tenure Track Vacancies at UPenn
Tenure Track Vacancies at UPenn
Dear Dominik,
I am writing to draw your attention to two tenure-track jobs at UPenn.
?[...]
The first job is in "global health" in the dept. of hist. & soc. of
science. Geographic area and time-period are open and we are open to
considering non-historians as well. The second job is in the religious
studies dept. and in the "material/ visual studies" of religion. I am
pasting both advertisements below this email.
Thanks for your help.
Warmly,
Projit
Global Health
The University of Pennsylvania?s Department of History and Sociology of
Science invites applications for a tenure-track position at the Assistant
Professor level in the history and sociocultural study of global health, to
begin July 1, 2015. In addition to contributing to the graduate program,
the successful candidate will play a crucial role in the Health and
Societies Program, a thriving interdisciplinary undergraduate major
administered through the department.
Interested candidates should submit a letter of application, CV, statement
of research, and the contact information for three individuals who have
agreed to provide a letter of recommendation at
http://facultysearches.provost.upenn.edu/postings/274. Recommenders will be
contacted by the University with instructions on how to submit a letter to
the website. Review of applications will begin October 1, 2014, and
continue until the position is filled. For additional information, contact
Beth Linker, chair of global health search committee, Department of History
and Sociology of Science, at linker at sas.upenn.edu. The Department of
History and Sociology of Science is strongly committed to Penn?s Action
Plan for Faculty Diversity and Excellence and to establishing a diverse
faculty (for more information see:
http://www.upenn.edu/almanac/volumes/v58/n02/diversityplan.html). The
University of Pennsylvania is an EOE. Minorities/Women/Individuals with
disabilities/Protected Veterans are encouraged to apply.
Material/ Visual Culture of Religion
The Department of Religious Studies at the University of Pennsylvania
invites applications for a tenure-track assistant professor in the field of
Religious Studies and Material/Visual Culture. The search committee is
especially interested in Material/Visual Culture specialists with research
experience in Africa and the African Diaspora, Asia, Latin America, or the
Middle East. Time period and sub-specialization are open. The successful
candidate for this new faculty position should have a compelling and
original research agenda and a commitment to pursue it within the
interdisciplinary framework offered by the Department of Religious Studies,
the School of Arts and Sciences, and the wider University. Recent Graduates
are particularly welcome to apply.
The successful candidate will participate in the department?s undergraduate
and graduate teaching mission. A normal teaching load is 4 courses per year
on a semester system. The University of Pennsylvania is a private research
university and a member of the Ivy League.
Interested candidates should apply at
http://facultysearches.provost.upenn.edu/postings/264 and submit a letter
of application, CV, statement of research, writing sample, and the contact
information for three individuals who will be asked by the University to
submit a letter of recommendation. The Department will begin reviewing
applications on October 15th, 2014. Applications will continue to be
considered until the position is filled.
The Department of Religious Studies is strongly committed to Penn?s Action
Plan for Faculty Diversity and Excellence and to establishing a diverse
faculty (for more information see:
http://www.upenn.edu/almanac/volumes/v58/n02/diversityplan.html). The
University of Pennsylvania is an EOE. Minorities/Women/Individuals with
disabilities/Protected Veterans are encouraged to apply.
 --
Projit B Mukharji, PhD.
Martin Meyerson Asst. Prof. in Interdisciplinary Studies,
Department of the History & Sociology of Science,
326, Claudia Cohen Hall,
249, S. 36th Street,
Philadelphia, PA - 19104-6304.
