[INDOLOGY] Job advertisement Austrian Academy of Sciences
Dear List members,
I would like to draw your attention to the following job advertisement. 
Please also inform interested colleages.
Best wishes,
Uwe Hartmann
The Austrian Academy of Sciences invites applications to a search for
DIRECTOR OF THE INSTITUTE FOR THE CULTURAL AND INTELLECTUAL HISTORY OF ASIA
The Institute for the Cultural and Intellectual History of Asia (IKGA) 
is dedicated to the exploration of various
cultures in Asia. Its mission is to enhance our knowledge in various 
Asia-related fields and to promote our
understanding of the contacts, mutual influences and manifold 
developments of Asian cultures. Research is
mainly conducted in the fields of Indology, Tibetology, Japanology, 
Chinese Buddhism, Religious Studies
and Buddhology. The internationally and historically most important 
research focuses on the publication of
important, newly recovered sources of Indian Buddhism. This specific 
orientation is a result of the agreement
of the Austrian Academy of Sciences with the China Tibetology Research 
Center. The applicant must
possess an outstanding competence to support and further develop the 
work carried out at the Institute.
He/she is expected to successfully initiate third-party funding and to 
strengthen international ties, since both
are an indispensable prerequisite for securing the long-term 
consolidation and further expansion of the
Institute.
The director?s responsibilities include:
? continuing to develop her/his position as a leading academic 
researcher; including publication and
securing of external funding
? setting and advancing the research strategy of the Institute
? continuing and advancing the cooperation with the China Tibetology 
Research Center
? leading, managing and developing the Institute to ensure the delivery 
of internationally-leading
research
? advancing ?AW?s commitment to the research foci by adding to the 
world-wide visibility of the
Institute through maintaining and developing its international activities
? representing the Institute both internally and externally
The profile of this position requires:
? outstanding research record with focus on the literature of Indian 
Buddhist philosophy and
experience in the edition of manuscripts with an excellent track record 
of publications in these fields
? internationally demonstrated research profile (habilitation or 
equivalent qualification)
? demonstrated excellence in leadership, in building and sustaining 
national and international research
networks, and in the management of international projects
? experience in raising third-party funds
? commitment to integrative and collaborative work and capacity building
? excellent knowledge of the English language
Candidates are requested to send a cover letter including the standard 
documents such as CV, list of
publications with reprints of the five key publications, short 
description of the current and/or future research
activities, as well as an outlook on the potential scientific 
development of the Institute to the following
address:
President
o. Univ.-Prof. Dr. Anton ZEILINGER
Dr. Ignaz Seipel-Platz 2
1010 Vienna
AUSTRIA
praesident at oeaw.ac.at
Applications should reach us by October 31st, 2014. Late applications 
may be considered until the position
has been filled.
In an attempt to increase the share of women in academic leadership 
positions, the ?AW especially invites
female candidates to apply for the present position.
Any questions related to this position should be directed to Dr. 
Alexander Nagler by phone
+43/1/51581/1272 or mail: alexander.nagler at oeaw.ac.at. For more 
information about the Austrian Academy
of Sciences please visit the homepage http://www.oeaw.ac.at. Information 
about the Institute is available
under http://www.ikga.oeaw.ac.at/ .
Prof. Dr. Jens-Uwe Hartmann
Institut fuer Indologie und Tibetologie
Universitaet Muenchen
Geschwister-Scholl-Platz 1
80539 Muenchen
Fax +49-(0)89-2180-5827
