[INDOLOGY] Announcement: New Journal of Hinduism & Call for	Papers
Is Hindu University of America an accredited university? Why does its website show courses only for Winter 2010 (http://www.hua.edu/Fall_2009.php) ? And why is the catalog for 2007 shown as the catalog (http://www.hua.edu/catalog.pdf)?
Thanks
Regards,
Palaniappan
Sent: Tue, Jul 29, 2014 5:58 pm
[INDOLOGY] Announcement: New Journal of Hinduism & Call for Papers
Hello All,
 I am happy to announce the launch of a new journal of Hinduism. Please see below for call for papers. 
Thank you,
Lavanya
InternationalJournal of Dharma and Hindu Studies
Call for papers forinaugural issue
InternationalJournal of Dharma and Hindu Studiesis a peer reviewed international journalpublished online by Hindu University of America dedicated to Dharma and Hindustudies covering all the religions with roots in Vedic philosophy andoriginated from India. 
The journal invites original scholarlyarticles for publication in its inaugural issue scheduled to launch in October,2014. 
The journal is dedicated to encouragescholarly inquiry into the study of all aspects of Hinduism. Hence, the inauguralissue of the journal is especially interested in papers on subjects related tothe examination of original sources of Hinduism, and other Dharma traditions ofIndia. The journal seeks interdisciplinary analytical studies of originaltexts, myths, archaeology, sacred geography, cosmology and cosmogony of Dharma,and Hindu traditions. Historical, religious and cultural interpretation of themultiple aspects of Hinduism and Dharma traditions, as adapted to modern life alsoforms the central focus of the inaugural issue.  
Please contact the following for furtherinformation or to submit your paper: IJDHS at hua.edu or to either the Editor: lvemsani at shawnee.edu orassociate editor yvpathak2012 at gmail.com 
Dr. Lavanya Vemsani  Ph.D. History (Univ. of Hyderabad) & Ph.D. Religious Studies (McMaster Univ.)
Distinguished Professor of History, Department of Social Sciences
Portsmouth OH 45662
V:7403513233 F:7403513153 E:lvemsani at shawnee.edu
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info
