[INDOLOGY] Alchemy metaphor
Il giorno 08/lug/2014, alle ore 18:48, Christopher Wallis <bhairava11 at gmail.com> ha scritto:
Dear Members,
just after an interminable car trip in Central Europe, I do not have the mental alertness to express my overall and detailed opinion on this very interesting matter. For the moment, at least, I can?t refrain from making some short remarks on the last point (and indirectly on my alleged ?confusion?). 
yad? tu par?m???a-nityatva-vy?pitv?di-dharmakai?varya-ghan?tman? ahambh?va-siddharasena ??ny?di-deha-dh?tv-anta? vidhyate yena prameyatv?t tat cyavata iva, tad? turyada??; 
yad?pi viddho 'sau pr??a-deh?di-dh?tu? sa?vid-rasena abhinivi??o ?tyanta? kanaka-dh?tur iva j?r?a? kriyate yena sa druta-rasa iva ?bh?ti kevala? tat-sa?sk?ra?, tad?pi tury?t?ta-da?? s? bhavati. 
drutarasa is clearly (at least to my mind) a bahuvr?hi depending on pr??a-deh?di-dh?tu? . However fairly elliptical, also the following tatsa?sk?ra? also has to be taken as a bahuvr?hi, nuancing sa drutarasa iva ?bh?ti (of course, we would have been very grateful to Abh. for a more merciful tatsa?sk?rasahita?, or so?; also possibly to be understood as: ?only, the sa?sk?ras left by body, pr??a, etc. [for the moment still remains]). The key term is here kevalam, which introduces a restriction with the regards the previous statement (which also contains in itself the germ of a possible restriction: drutarasa *iva*.  Wallis? alternative interpretation ("the sole impression of awakened consciousness itself?) does not convince me: in these contexts sa?sk?ra? always refers to the residual traces left by ?inferior? realities on the way of their being progressively overcome or transfigured (see e.g. the somewhat parallel passage in IPVV III p. 348 tannijar?pasamyagviddhakanakar?pat?tyantajara??p?ditatatsa?sk?rava?ap?talat?va?e?avidrutarasany?yena).
I should like also to add that the tury?t?ta sam?ve?a, which this passage refers to, is not something intrinsically different from turya, but only its progressive extension, which virtually leads the complete elimination of the sa?sk?ras too. In saying ?virtually? I mean that for these authors this is in a sense an endless process. After all, if the process were indeed completed, how could sam?ve?a itself be possible? As Abhinava says (IPV on III.2.12) sam?ve?apallav? eva ca prasiddhadeh?dipram?t?bh?gaprahv?bh?vabh?van?nupr??it?? [?] dehap?te tu parame?vara evaikarasa? , ---- iti ka? kutra katha? sam?vi?et.
More (perhaps) to follow.
All best wishes to the members of this wonderful list
Raffaele Torella
Prof. Raffaele Torella
Chair of Sanskrit
Istituto Italiano di Studi Orientali
Sapienza Universit? di Roma
www.scribd.com/raffaeletorella
