Thank you for the information. This is interesting. Given that Savar?as are most often seen as physicians, I would have expected savar?a-v?tti to be glossed as a grant for the livelihood of a physician instead of a scribe. Is the posted interpretation given by Sircar or T. N. Subramanian? Is there any reference to an inscription or SITI reference?
Regards,
Palaniappan
Sent: Thu, Jul 17, 2014 2:09 am
Re: [INDOLOGY] Br?hma?a and Savar?a
Possibly, it is a question of a rather late inscriptions.
In any case, I didn't find "savarNa" mentions in my base (and don't remember such definitions) in texts of inscriptions till the V-VIII centuries.
Interestingly, that D. Ch. Sircar in his Epigraphical Glossary mentions savarNa only once (savarNa-vRtti = profession of writing the document).
And just refers to a South Indian Temple Inscriptions by T.N. Subramanian
Dmitriy N. Lielukhine
Oriental Institute
Moscow
http://indepigr.narod.ru/index_1.htm
17.07.2014, 10:13, "palaniappa at aol.com" <palaniappa at aol.com>:
In an inscription of ca. 1009, Brahmin villages, Vaikh?nasa villages, and Savar?a villages are mentioned separately. (E. Hultzsch, the editor of the inscription corrects the reading of 'Cava??ar' as 'cama?ar' and interprets them as Jains. This correction was not necessary.) There are other inscriptions where individuals mentioned as Savar?a are listed with their Brahminical gotras and at least in one inscription a Savar?a is described as belonging to Bh?radv?ja gotra and Bodh?yana s?tra. One inscription mentions 32 Savar?as being given 32 house sites as an agrahara. These Savar?as seemed to have functioned as physicians. It is clear that they were Brahmins but are classified as separate from 'Br?hma?a'. K. V. Subrahmanya Aiyer mentions (without citing the specific reference) Y?davaprak??a as explaining in his work Vaijayanti that Savar?a was an offspring of a Brahmin father and a K?atriya mother. To me this explanation seems to be suspect. It looks like a section of Brahmins was willing to engage in professions such as being musicians, physicians, etc., notwithstanding any objections from the orthodox Vedic Brahmins who  seemed to have reserved for themselves the designation 'Br?hma?a' (without any modifier), at least in the beginning.  Inscriptions also differentiate Br??ma?a from ?iva-Br?h?a?a. (The Tamil epic Cilappatik?ram mentions the music-loving Brahmins as having their own quarters separate from Vedic Brahmins.)  This is similar to the adoption of the Tamil classical dance form by the Brahmins in the 20th century. In spite of the earlier objections from orthodox Brahmins, that dance form has become very popular among all Tamil Brahmins nowadays. Tamil Brahmins serving as physicians also seem to have gained acceptance from the orthodox over time. I would like to know if 'Savar?a' as a Brahmin was known to texts/inscriptions outside the Tamil region. 
Thanks in advance.
Regards,
Palaniappan
,
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info
