[INDOLOGY] Interview with the new ICHR Chairman
Thanks for bringing poetics into the discussion. There are many other
'tools' that help this 'history Vs myth' discussion.
1. As for traditional Sanskrit poetics, dhvany?l?ka, in fact, maintains the
autonomy of poet and his poetic creation by proclaiming
"ap?r? k?vya sams?r? kavi r?kah praj?p?tih
yath?smai r?chat? vi?vam tath?dam parivartat?"
2. Another place where we find recognition of 'a??str?ya' elements  in
poetry and proclamation of that as 'not wrong' in Rajashekhara's
k?vyam?m?msa  while discussing his highly innovative categorization of
kavisamaya.
kavisamaya? j?tidravyakriy?samayasth?pan? /
a??str?yamalaukika? ca parampar?y?ta? yamarthamupanibadhnanti kavaya? sa
kavisamaya? /
"nanve?a do?a? /
In support of his 'nanve?a do?a?' , he quotes several previous scholars
mentioning them as '?ch?ry?h' and 'y?yavar?y?h' which shows that such an
awareness is older than Rajashekhara.
3. The above is only about the distinction between the poetic world and the
'real' world. But this is not useful in discussing the awareness among
ancient Indians about the distinction between 'mythical reality' and the
'real' reality. Such a distinction is articulated in matsya pur??a.
?atsyan?r?ya?a answers manu that his ?disr???i (mythical reality) is to be
distinguished from the general sr???i ('real' reality).
 divyeyam?dis???istu rajogu?asamudbhav? /
at?ndriyendriy? tadvad at?ndriya?ar?rik? // MatsP_4.3 //
divyatejomay? bh?pa divyaj??nasamudbhav? /
na martyairabhita? ?aky? vaktu? vai m??sacak?ubhi? MatsP_4.4//
4.. Viewing myth as an unquestionable account of the real happenings of the
past was there with all the societies with myth-containing cultures
including the Greeks. That in Greek society too, poets modified certain
elements /portions of myths to suit their poetic works and those viewing
myth as an unquestionable account of the real happenings of the past
considered this to be 'lying about gods' is evident from Plato's
prescription to banish poets from his dream commonwealth for this reason.
5. Scepticism towards myth too is very much ancient both in Greece and
India.
6. Interestingly, it is only in the west that the intense defence of myth
developed in Kant, and neo-Kantian philosophers such as Cassirer, in
Jungian Psychoanalysis etc.
7. Particularly, understanding of Indian myth vis-?-vis history was
provided to the modern world by the historian of religions Mircea
Eliade. He made 'history' as one of  the ways of looking at the past, by
making 'history' the modern man's 'myth' and myth as the myth-believer's
'history'. I remember Levi Strauss asking his readers to imagine what would
be the response of the myth-believing people to the 'history' . He says
such people would respond by saying " Oh! That is what your mythology says!"
8. Interpretations of Ramayana, Mahabharata and Bhagavata as the concealed
expressions of Vedantic, Kundalini-taantric and other such ideas has a long
tradition in traditional Indian scholarship and shows the availability of
views other than those of 'real' accounts of the past  towards mythologies
in Indian tradition.
9. Viewing pur??ic narratives as v?d?rtha upabr?mha?a also is an outlook
different from that of real accounts of the past towards those narratives.
This outlook is very well established in the traditional Indian scholarship.
10. 'par?k?a priy? vai ivahi d?v?h pratyak?a dvi??h'  is a frequent
expression in the br?mha?as and ?ra?yakas, which again is an evidence of
the availability of 'non-real' perspectives towards 'deva-narratives'
(myths) in the ?r?ti-literature itself.
11. In my PhD dissertation, I developed a model of myth-interpretation
using the conceptual tools from the Vedic literature and showed that
ancient and medieval Indian poets were aware of such understandings of the
myth.
12. There at one place, I argued this way: Use of simple present for
narrative past is a linguistic convention. Use of past tense verbs for
'eternality' is a converse process to this and this is what we find in
the myths.
Thanks for your patience.
Regards,
Nagaraj
On Tue, Jul 15, 2014 at 3:05 AM, Howard Resnick <hr at ivs.edu> wrote:
Prof.Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad-500044
