[INDOLOGY] Fellowship for Gandharan Text Studies
The University of Washington announces the competition for the 72th 
Dhammachai Fellowship for graduate students interested in Gandh?ran 
Studies, as described below (and in the attachment). Please bring this 
to the attention of prospective students.
Richard Salomon
72th Dhammachai Fellowship for G?ndh?r? Studies
at the University of Washington
Description of the Fellowship
The Department of Asian Languages and Literature, University of 
Washington, announces the inception of the 72th Dhammachai Fellowship, 
sponsored by the Dhammachai International Research Institute. This 
fellowship will be offered to a qualified applicant to the graduate 
program in Buddhist Studies in the Department of Asian Languages and 
Literature whose studies will focus on research on Buddhist texts in 
G?ndh?r? under the auspices of the department's Early Buddhist 
Manuscripts Project. The scholarship will offer a guarantee of three 
years of full support, plus two further years conditional on 
satisfactory progress.
The Early Buddhist Manuscripts Project
The Early Buddhist Manuscripts Project was founded in 1996 to promote 
the study and publication of newly discovered Buddhist manuscripts in 
the G?ndh?r? language, dating from the first century B.C.E. to the third 
century C.E. The manuscripts contain a wide variety of Buddhist texts 
and genres including s?tra, abhidharma, avad?na, commentaries and 
scholastic treatises. For further information, please see project's 
website at http://ebmp.org/.
Prerequisites for the Scholarship
The holder of the 72th Dhammachai Scholarship will be expected to pursue 
original research on one or more G?ndh?r? manuscripts The holder should 
have an appropriate background in Buddhist Studies and knowledge of at 
least one of the relevant languages, such as Sanskrit, Pali, and 
Chinese. Previous knowledge of the G?ndh?r? language is not required, 
but will be a focus of the awardee's studies in the first few years in 
the program.
Application procedure
1. Applicants for the scholarship must first submit a standard 
application for graduate study in the Department of Asian Languages and 
Literature through the Graduate School of the University of Washington, 
designating Buddhist Studies as their primary program. For application 
forms, see: 
http://www.grad.washington.edu/GradPrograms/grad_program.aspx?progid=8
This application is due December 15, 2014.
2. In addition, applicants must separately fill in the application for 
the 72th Dhammachai Fellowship. Application forms will be found at:
http://asian.washington.edu/news/2014/08/01/72nd-dhammachai-fellowship-announcement
The Dhammachai Fellowship application is due on January 15, 2014.
Further questions can be directed to Prof. R. Salomon at 
rsalomon at u.washington.edu.
Richard Salomon
Department of Asian Languages and Literature
University of Washington, Box 353521
Seattle WA 98195-3521
USA
