[INDOLOGY]  Source of "nAdevo devam arcayet"
Thank you Prof. Nagaraj Paturiji & Dr. T. Ganesan,
You are right about the worshiper's elevated consciousness. But the saying refers to the concept of sayujyata in the said references and it is stated in the context of internal worship (antaryaga: purification of inner being) but not the operation of supernatural. It is a mandatory requirement for the Saiva worshipper to elevate one's consciousness to Siva consciousness to be eligible to worship Siva. For this one needs to acquire certain divine qualities. Its elaborate explanation is found often in Puranas, Saiva scriptures and Saiva paddhati literature. This is fundamentally a Vedantic/Upanisadic concept which is said to be practiced in daily worship. I mean it is a ritualistic application of philosophical thought.
Regards,
 From: Nagaraj Paturi <nagarajpaturi at gmail.com>
Sent: Tuesday, September 30, 2014 11:46 AM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Source of "nAdevo devam arcayet"
Thanks to Niveditaji for alternative expressions with the word siva for rudra for the oft quoted nArudrO rudramarchayEt .
But these expressions need not  necessarily be taken to Advaita Vedanta. 
They might have to do with the ritual requirement of an 'elevated' level of 'consciousness' for the operation of the supernatural. Otherwise the verb archayEt and the conditionality in the sentence can not be explained.  
Also, nArudrO rudramarchayEt is seen expressed in revert ways in early "Saiva canons and in later paddhati literature, for example: in Ni"svaasa uttarasuutra, 2.8.: "?iv?bhuta?
prasann?tm? ?ivasy?rcanam?caret"; in Sarvaj??nottara tantra, 5.2. "?iv?bh?tah
sup?t?tm? ?ivasy?rcanam?rabhet" and in many "Saiva Paddhati literature -"?ivo
bh?tv? ?iva? yajet". Morever, it is a Vedantic concept of identifying oneself with Brahman (aham brahmosmi, so aham), and implemented in "Saiva philosophy as well in "Saiva rituals and worship as Prof. Nagaraj Paturi mentions.
Prof.Nagaraj Paturi
Hyderabad-500044
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
http://listinfo.indology.info
