[INDOLOGY] New Purana Section at 16th World Sanskrit Conference: Submission Deadline November 30
As the submission deadline for the World Sanskrit Conference has just been
extended to November 30, we thought this an ideal time to further
advertise the new purana section at this conference (see below). Apologies
for the cross-posting.
Dear Colleagues,
We are delighted to announce that for the first time ever, there will be a
section specifically dedicated to Puranas at the 16th World Sanskrit
Conference, Bangkok, 28 June --2 July 2015. We feel that this is a major
step in recognizing the importance of this often-neglected genre and will
help focus scholarly attention of these invaluable texts. This seems a
natural step for us as it builds in the growing interest in Puranas
expressed, for example, at the most recent Dubrovnik International
Conference on Sanskrit Epics and Puranas in August 2014.
We are all well aware of much innovative scholarship being undertaken on
Puranas, but we feel that it has been under-represented at recent WSCs,
especially in the fields of Bhagavata studies, Devi traditions, regional
puranas, performance, and so on.
As co-convenors of this inaugural WSC Purana section, we wish to extend to
you the warmest possible invitation to join us in Bangkok, to present your
scholarship to a new and appreciative audience and to network with
like-minded colleagues with similar interests. We are taking broad view of
puranas and welcome contributions on mahatmyas, stotras and vratakatha as
well.
Help us make the first ever independent WSC Purana section the success it
deserves to be.
Please register your interest as soon as possible, and certainly before 15
October, by following this link:
http://www.sanskrit-silpakorn.org/registration-form-wsc.php
We would be most grateful if you could share this invitation with grad
students or colleagues who may be interested. If you have any questions,
please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours collegially
Elizabeth Rohlman
University of Calgary
elizabeth.rohlman at ucalgary.ca
McComas Taylor
Australian National University
mccomas.taylor at anu.edu.au
