[INDOLOGY] Childhood and Children in Ancient India
Thanks to everyone for excellent recommendations for this topic.  The earlier thread was also very helpful.  My first impression is that the topic is fairly well addressed within Buddhist Studies but that other Indological areas rich in primary sources have only begun to put the various pieces together.  I greatly appreciate your help.
Best regards,
Don Davis
Sent: Tuesday, November 04, 2014 2:47 AM
Re: [INDOLOGY] Childhood and Children in Ancient India
this topic has come up before.  A keyword search of the INDOLOGY archive, link at indology.info<http://indology.info>, will give the earlier recommendations.
Best,
Dominik
On 3 November 2014 20:58, Donald R Davis <drdj at austin.utexas.edu<mailto:drdj at austin.utexas.edu>> wrote:
Dear colleagues,
I would be grateful for further recommendations of secondary studies pertaining to childhood and children in ancient India, especially those with a historical, epigraphical, or literary focus.  I am aware of the studies below that touch on some aspects of children?s lives and training. The literature on sons specifically is easier to find, but it clusters around the ideal twelve-sons categorization in Dharmasastra.  I?m looking for studies outside of Dharmasastra, if possible.  SARDS-3 was helpful.  Is there nothing more like Phillipe Aries?s Centuries of Childhood, for those of you who may know it?  Any leads would be appreciated.
Thanks,
Don Davis
Dept of Asian Studies
University of Texas at Austin
Granoff, Phyllis. ?Fathers and Sons: Some Remarks on the Ordination of Children in the Medieval ?vet?mbara Monastic Community?
Kakar, Sudhir. The Inner World
Katre, S. M. ?On some words for 'child' in Indo-Aryan?
Meyer, J.J. Sexual Life in Ancient India
Rocher, Ludo. ?The Status of Minors in Classical Hindu Law?
Scharfe, Hartmut. Education in Ancient India
Schopen, Gregory, ?The Urban Buddhist Nun and a Protective Rite for Children in Early North India?
Silk, Jonathan A. ?Child abandonment and homes for unwed mothers in ancient India: Buddhist sources?
Verpoorten, Jean-Marie. ?L'enfant dans la litt?rature rituelle v?dique (br?hma?a)?
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info<mailto:INDOLOGY at list.indology.info>
http://listinfo.indology.info
