[INDOLOGY] Doctoral position at University of Munich
?Dear colleagues,
I would like to bring to your attention the following
attractive doctoral position at the University of Munich:
   http://www.uni-muenchen.de/aktuelles/stellenangebote/wissenschaft/20141114125838.html
Please share the announcement with anybody who might be
interested.
All best,
Stefan Baums
Doctoral Position in Indology / Buddhist Studies
Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich
Division:             Faculty for the Study of Culture
Start date:           1 March 2015
Application deadline: 15 January 2015
Salary:               TV?L / 75%
Term of employment:   Two years, with the possibility of
                      renewal for one additional year.
This is a part?time position (30 hours per week).
The Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) is one of
the most renowned and largest universities in Germany.
Tasks
The discovery of the oldest Buddhist manuscripts ? written
between the first century BCE and the fourth century CE in
the northwest Indian region of Gandh?ra ? has provided a new
basis for our understanding of this formative phase of
Buddhism. The project ?Buddhist Manuscripts from Gandh?ra?
prepares editions of the newly discovered textual witnesses
and investigates the linguistic, literary and cultural
history of Buddhism in Gandh?ra. It is supported by the
Union of the German Academies of Sciences and Humanities and
is based at the LMU Munich.
You will carry out a research project and write a Ph.D.
dissertation that increases our knowledge of Buddhism in
Gandh?ra or an associated area of early Indian Buddhism.
While the specific content of your project will be defined
by yourself, you will contribute to the research of the
Gandh?ra project and work together with its researchers. You
will be given opportunities for professional development
through participation in the LMU?s interdisciplinary Ph.D.
program in Buddhist Studies.
Requirements
A very good first degree in a relevant discipline (e.g.,
Indology, South Asian art history or archeology, Buddhist
Studies, Sinology) is a prerequisite. You will be expected
to make an original contribution to knowledge on the basis
of primary sources and through scholarly argumentation. We
offer individual support and an inspiring environment.
Your workplace is centrally located in Munich and easy to
reach by public transport. We offer an interesting and
responsible position with good opportunities for
professional development. Equally qualified disabled
applicants will be preferred. Female candidates are
encouraged to apply.
Salary
You will receive an attractive salary corresponding to 75%
of a full?time position under in accordance with the
?Tarifvertrag f?r den ?ffentlichen Dienst der L?nder
(TV?L)? (http://oeffentlicher-dienst.info/tv-l/west).
Further information
http://www.en.gandhara.indologie.lmu.de/
Bewerbungsadresse
Please send the following application material by email:
(A) as a PDF file (maximum size 5 MB):
(1) cover letter (statement of purpose)
(2) curriculum vitae
(3) copies of degrees
(4) research proposal (maximum of 5,000 characters including
    spaces) and bibliography
(5) writing sample (ca. 10?20 pages), e.g. from your M.A.
    thesis, in the original language
(6) if applicable, list of publications
(B) names, addresses and email addresses of two referees
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit?t M?nchen
Department f?r Asienstudien
Institut f?r Indologie und Tibetologie
Prof. Dr. Jens-Uwe Hartmann
Geschwister-Scholl-Platz 1
80539 M?nchen
Germany
E-Mail: evelyn.kindermann at lmu.de
Dr. Stefan Baums
Institute for Indian and Tibetan Studies
Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich
