[INDOLOGY] Orality and memory culture in the transmission of the Vedas: video clips / intended public: students in Indology ...
Dear colleagues,
Since I have raised a couple of questions about the status of orality 
and literacy in ancient, medieval and modern South Asia that sparked a 
lively and interesting discussion, i would like to clarify a couple of 
points, in order not to be misunderstood.
On 2014-12-08 12:13, Viktoria Lysenko wrote:
As far as I know I completely agree, in this respect South Asian culture 
is unique. But I would like to stress the "as far as I know," for I am 
not an expert in all cultural traditions all over the world, and it 
might well be that during the last four millennia and across the whole 
world other people belonging to other cultures (of which I know 
nothing), might have developed an oral culture similar or comparable to 
the South Asian, and we are not just aware of it. But maybe I'm wrong 
precisely because of my ignorance.
Well, that was exactly my point as well. The advocates of the 
importance, nay predominance of oral culture in South Asia focus almost 
always and almost exclusively on one type of oral transmission, i.e. the 
memorization of whole texts, be they versified (like the Vedic hymns or 
the verses of the six dar'sanas) or in prose (like the grammatical 
suutras). However, epic literature and Buddhist literature clearly bear 
traces of an oral transmission akin to the one of the Greek epics, i.e. 
based on formulae and not on whole texts (this point has already been 
noted by Scharfe in his 2002 book, p. 19-20). It was this type of oral 
transmission I was referring to.
On 2014-12-08 10:04, Dipak Bhattacharya wrote:
As I have tried to explain, that was not what I intended. I just wanted 
to stress the fact that this type of oral transmission is not the only 
one present in South Asia, and we have to disambiguate.
Again, I would like to stress the fact that we have no reliable data 
about literacy rate and diffusion of manuscripts for any period of South 
Asian history. I believe moreover that one has to distinguish between 
ephemeral writings like letters (already mentioned by Nearchos, if I'm 
not wrong), and other types of manuscript documents (be they literary or 
official documents). I am well aware that orality played and still plays 
a major role in South Asian culture, and I do not want to deny it, but I 
also have the strong feeling that the impact and importance first of 
manuscript culture, then of print culture in South Asia is very often 
downplayed. The estimates of the number of South Asian manuscripts are 
in the millions, see for instance the recently published article by D. 
Wujastyk on "Indian Manuscripts" (in J?rg Quenzer et al., Manuscript 
Cultures: Mapping the Field," Studies in Manuscript Cultures, volume 1, 
Berlin: De Gruyter, 2014), where two estimates are given: "The National 
Mission for Manuscripts in New Delhi works with a conservative figure of 
seven million  manuscripts, and its database is approaching two million 
records. The late Prof. David Pingree, basing his count on a lifetime of 
academic engagement with Indian manuscripts, estimated that there were 
thirty million manuscripts, if one counted both those in public and 
government libraries, and those in private collections."
Well, I have to confess that even the more conservative estimate of 
seven million of manuscripts does not sound to me as the mark of a 
culture where literacy played a secondary role. But probably my opinion 
is biased by my own research interests.
I am really looking forward to read more opinions and contributions on 
this topic.
Best wishes,
Camillo Formigatti
