[INDOLOGY] Orality and memory culture in the transmission of	the Vedas: video clips / intended public: students in Indology ...
This discussion disregards the elephant in the room, in my opinion, and that is ?why??  I know of no other culture that went to such effort to describe/prescribe a language ? and we should remember that there were other systems than P??ini?s.  The mindset that produced P??ini and other grammatical treatises also worked ? and still works ? for Tamil, which has the Tolk?ppiyam, though it?s not as compact as P??ini.  If we can discover why so much effort was devoted to compacting P??ini?s formulations and why it was preserved so carefully we can gain insight into whether it was meant to be oral.  Surely it is far easier to memorize ?lokas and other kinds of rhythmical language than P??ini?s s?tras ? I do not believe their brevity has anything to do with memorization (I remember Ingalls once remarked on this).  I?m not convinced by the writing-materials argument either.  P??ini was impelled by a need for brevity, completeness and correctness, much as a computer programmer is.  Everyone knows the ?loka about how a grammarian rejoices more if he can reduce the length of a s?tra by one syllable than he does if he has a son.  Isn?t it possible that P??ini was motivated by a desire for a kind of perfect elegance and nothing more?  But that still begs the question of ?why.?
Perhaps it would be germane to look at the linguistic situation of N. India in P??ini?s time.  It?s hardly my field, but I would guess that Vedic Sanskrit was long since extinct as a spoken language and that everyday speech consisted of various sorts of Prakrits, Pali, and the like.  Here, the diglossia of modern Tamil may provide some insight.  Spoken Tamil is about as far from written Tamil as Prakrit/Pali is from Sanskrit.  Yet even though people do not speak it normally, formal written Tamil is cultivated assiduously and people all learn it.  It is used in many venues ? political speeches, pur??a movies, and most writing.  My guess is that in P??ini?s time, there was a need to define ?elegant? language to be used for higher diction.  No doubt the Vedas also played a role.  Without definitive guides like P??ini?s grammar, Sanskrit would become corrupt ? something we see in Buddhist Sanskrit texts.  To prevent this, a prescriptive tool like P??ini (or the Tolk?ppiyam) is essential.
George Hart
