From rpeck at NECA.COM  Mon Mar 20 13:04:34 2000
From: rpeck at NECA.COM (Bob Peck)
Date: Mon, 20 Mar 00 08:04:34 -0500
Subject: Anachronistic energy
Message-ID: <161227057156.23782.2667052946276209494.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

I agree, the ancients did not view energy as the average person of today
does as something physical. They did not view fire as we do to today, but
rather saw it as a manifesting of transformational energy with or without
high temperature. This is obvious by their writings. However, they did view
energy as a mystical element behind change that is absolutely true today.
Any change must be paid for with an equal amount of energy in another form.
Much of the modern world assumes falsely that an individualistic change does
not require energy but can come about by some psychic or belief type
phenomena. I read the RV as a fundamental treatise on the inner energy of
change of an individual (as well as being ritualistic). Soma is a source of
transformational energy (not just a hallucinogenic). If you wish to change
you must find a source of energy (soma) to drive that change (all excellent
physics).
My particular bias is that I obtained  several patents and worked with
funding from ARCO on devices that would convert a low temperature flow of
heat into useable electrical power and found that at a meeting with other
energy scientists that none of us were really cognizant as to the mystical
nature of energy even though we had all learned the fundamentals. Then I
started to read ancient Indian writings.
 I am attempting to argue now that the ancients did in fact have a more
correct view of energy than science until Einstein. Einstein stated what I
perceive as the summation of the fundamental writings of most religions,
that the manifested world comes from energy. Energy and matter are
essentially one and the same. Energy can take many forms from light, to
heat, to motion to matter.

My last letter briefly stated an obvious allegorical? description of the
view of the sun and moon from the perspective of Einstein?s equation and
observations of the sky. The sun is masculine and the source of Law or
creation while the moon is the source of energy and matter. The Vedic
writings, in my understanding, then take this analogy and apply it to the
individual with the inner fire, energy and matter. If you desire to change
you must find the inner heaven that contains the inner sun and moon.

This inner heaven I again argue is universal even though it has been glossed
over by religious interpretations around the world. I find that much of the
world describes an inner fire of transformation in one way or another. They
also point to a separate creative element that directs the change.

To be religious, I strongly believe that modern man needs to find the inner
fire of soma, spirit, chi, ki, holy ghost or whatever it might be called. I
believe that the early Indian writings contain the science of how to change
(along with a lot of added BS). I think the challenge of today is to
separate the wheat from the chaff. And you guys have the training!
Respects
Bob Peck




