From rpeck at NECA.COM  Thu Jul 13 19:16:04 2000
From: rpeck at NECA.COM (Bob Peck)
Date: Thu, 13 Jul 00 15:16:04 -0400
Subject: dates
Message-ID: <161227059888.23782.10281541088439671087.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Thanks for the dates and info on the HaThayogApradIpika. The given dates
support a hypothesis I have been working on for years that may relate to the
current debates.
My basic assumptions are:
The Rig Veda consists of verses relating to personal experiences of soma and
its powers.
Soma is internally generated with pounding, pressing etc. and is a higher
form of energy (normally suppressed).
Soma corresponds to the transformational power that lies within the lower
body of an individual as described in the Greek Book of Matthew of the
Christians (later ascribed to the church).
Tantra was the science of explanation of this inner energy of
transformation.
The Tattvas described an inner control system comparable to modern control
systems using Energy and Law.
The majority of the practices in the HaThayogApradIpika are directed to the
perineum or the lower center and are the ?how to? of the Rig Veda.
For Indologists
Was there a suppression of this science (if it actually
existed)? Did it become allegorical and expressed in acceptable sexual or
religious terms? Were the writings of Abhinavagupta describing the old
science in similes? With my limited Sanskrit I found that his ParAtrIshikA
VivaraNa seemed to offer keys to translation of the ParAtriMzikA that
describes the inner energy source, is this acceptable?.
I know it is unfashionable to ascribe hidden secrets to the ancients,
however, I have found so much scientific verification of the old views as
well as found that many modern teachings and practices suppress the
generation of a transformational energy that I intend to dig deeper. .
I am not a formal Indologist but rather a research scientist with advanced
training in energy conversion, transport and storage that seems to be fairly
closely related to the ancient concepts. Is anyone else interested or doing
work in this field?
Regards,
Bob Peck




