From koenraad.elst at PANDORA.BE  Sat Jul 15 12:01:11 2000
From: koenraad.elst at PANDORA.BE (Koenraad Elst)
Date: Sat, 15 Jul 00 14:01:11 +0200
Subject: Politics on this list; goodbye
Message-ID: <161227059962.23782.7798490599518750494.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

(for the record: a mail withheld from sending for the sake of peace, Dec.
1999)

Dr. Wujastyk,
        Does one and the same set of rules apply to
everyone here?  In the last week there have been two personal attacks with
political content on me, and you
didn't find it necessary to intervene, unlike in other recent cases.
                1. Irene Maradei supplies a list of URLs including fervently
political ones such as the "Bible of the Aryan invasion" by Uthaya Naidu.
But she adds a political comment only to mine, describing me as a "fervent
Hindutva fan".  I  outgrew fanhood years ago, and as for my view of
Hindutva, vide my critical book BJP vs. Hindu Resurgence, 1997.
                2. In one of the personal attacks with which Dr. Zydenbos
keeps polluting this list, he accuses me of a "preoccupation with Hitler".
It happens to be a fact of history that in Nazi textbooks, the AIT scenario
of dynamic
white Aryans invading a country of dark natives, then imposing a racial
apartheid system on them, then degenerating because of their mixing with
dark natives nonetheless, was *the* illustration of the racist worldview.
Like L?on Poliakov in Le
Mythe Aryen, I found I could not give a fair account of the AIT without
mentioning its Nazi episode.  But I never deduced any conclusions about the
rightness or wrongness of the theory from the political uses made of it.
            As you can verify, it was Zydenbos himself
who chose to introduce Hitler into the recent discussion on Vedic
chronology.  It
was also he who on October 28 made an uncalled-for reference to an unnamed
"political personality" as saying that a lie repeated often enough will end
up passing for the truth,-- a principle which he himself is applying with
his endlessly repeated denial (as "lies", no less) of my observation that he
started this whole wrangle on 12-12-1993 in
his Indian Express article "An obscurantist argument".  There he made
several Nazi references in his attack on NS Rajaram (who didn't know
Zydenbos and hadn't attacked him), e.g. he described Rajaram's
non-invasionism as "close to the *Blut und Boden* ideology of
Nazism".  When I reminded him of this, he took his pedantry to
the surrealistic extent of insisting on a distinction between a "Hitler"
smear (as alleged, imprecisely, by Rajaram against him)
and a "Nazi" smear (as effectively committed by him in his IE article).
Such a distinction does not exist, unless you know of an employer telling an
applicant: "At first I wasn't going to hire you, for I had heard that you
are a
Hitlerian, but since you are only a Nazi, it's OK."
            If Zydenbos doesn't want to own up his "Nazi" attack on Rajaram,
he could simply disown it, say that he changed his mind or so.  We welcome
conversions to fairness.  When Zydenbos denied his own statement, I had
posted a correction to this
list not because I have anything against Dr. Zydenbos (do
reread those September E-mails or my website article to see for yourself
what kid gloves I had put on before expressing my disagreement with him),
but simply for the record, as yet another example of how
otherwise well-behaved invasionists routinely lapse into abuse when they are
faced with AIT skepticism.
            As for my mention of Hitler in my review of the Deshpande &
Bronkhorst volume, do verify that I was commenting on such references
given in the book itself (p.148) and by invasionist polemicists in general.
Where people volunteer Hitler references to a debate, in most cases (not in
the D&B volume) it is not as a real argument but as a trump card to knock
the other side out of the debate, e.g. against ecologists: "But the great
pioneer of
ecology was none other than Hitler!"  I have never
used that kind of argument against the AIT, because unlike Zydenbos, I have
more substantive arguments.
            And also because I have seen other debates completely derailed
by contrived Hitler references.  In writings about Hindutva, "Hindu fascism"
rhetoric systematically replaces fact-based analysis, cfr. MJ
Akbar's or MS Aiyar's pre-election phrases like "1933: If the BJP Wins..."
(As we all know, in its 28 months' rule, the BJP has emulated Hitler by
abolishing parliament, opening concentration camps, prohibiting interracial
marriage, and a bloody Long Knives purge of its own ranks;-- must be, for
none of the
"Hindu fascism" mongers has yet apologized for misinforming the public).
All kinds of wild stories are abroad to buttress the "Hindu fascism" line,
e.g. in his acclaimed book Hitler's Priestess (p.66), N.
Goodrick-Clarke writes: "After (...) March 1939, Indian opinion on Germany
polarized sharply into two camps: those who would be loyal to Britain in the
event of a war between Britain and Germany and those who would not.  The
Hindu Mahasabha adopted a particularly strong pro-German position".  In
reality,
the HMS decided, immediately after Britain declared war on
Germany, to call on all Hindu young men to join the British-Indian Army.
HMS president V.D. Savarkar was derided as a "recruiting officer" by
Congress activists, but it was his recruits who
saved the day for Britain in Dunkirk, Libya, Iraq, Burma.  Even the nadir of
Hindutva history proves it: of the seven conspirators involved in Gandhi's
murder, three were British-Indian Army veterans of WW2.  But no reviewer has
pointed this out, and Goodrick-Clarke's howler will pass into the
conventional wisdom.  Probably some list members are already teaching it in
class.
            By the way, apart from the AIT, Hitler had something else in
