From rajarshi.banerjee at SMGINC.COM  Sat Aug  5 02:49:47 2000
From: rajarshi.banerjee at SMGINC.COM (Rajarshi Banerjee)
Date: Fri, 04 Aug 00 22:49:47 -0400
Subject: Rajaram's bull
Message-ID: <161227060621.23782.9404277706813397007.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

VS> What Indologists need to do is to popularize Indology. Like it
or not, there is a general feeling among Indians that Indology
as a rule subscribes to too much Indophobia.

RB> The arguments need to be believable and palatable. Statements to the
effect that

aryans did not have a word for happiness till axle holes were invented.
a word for brown till they saw beavers.
a notion of a territory/perimeter till there were circular wagon
encampments.

sound bizzare

All the above could be true or it could be etymology gone haywire. Who is to
tell?

What about terminology for chariot parts whose meanings could be determined
exactly even after a gap of 3000 yrs. In english bike can mean a motor cycle
or a bicycle.

It looks like indologists have gone overbooard too and dont want to look at
the other side of their cracked seal. Unfortunately there is no visual proof
like a seal to show them up.

Looking for eastward migration in vedic passages is as bad as a harappan
seal reading which allows for any interpretation.

THE IE WORD PURVAJ/PROGENITOR IMPLIES THAT INDO EUROPEAN ANCESTORS CAME FROM
THE EAST. JUST WANT TO SHOW THAT ALL SORTS OF MIGRATIONS CAN BE READ INTO
PASSAGES FROM ANCIENT LITERATURE. There are too many degrees of freedom just
like rajarams readings.

Also relegating the IVC to a culture of bead makers who left no mark betrays
a laziness/narrow mindedness of traditional indologists to think outside of
old tradition and confront fresh data.

There could have been an early central asian influence on the subcontinent
but not proved like this. An examination of vedic vocabulary and substrates
as ubdertaken by Dr. witzel seems a much more useful excercise and has some
statistical validity. ( e.g. comparision with other IE languages ).

At one point sanskrit, iron, chariots, horses, caste system were all
supposed to have entered india in one big bang. I am glad to learn that some
people have noted that these could have been separated events something I
have harped on before.

RB




