From rajarshi.banerjee at SMGINC.COM  Fri Sep  1 22:28:57 2000
From: rajarshi.banerjee at SMGINC.COM (Rajarshi Banerjee)
Date: Fri, 01 Sep 00 18:28:57 -0400
Subject: interesting experience/Urdu/hindi
Message-ID: <161227061284.23782.17992411118530813557.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

SA> Ahh - so it was the evil Europeans who forced printing upon helpless
Indians which led to the usage of one script, one language, thereby fuelling
secessionism. I would like to see a single text where Tamil was used to
write Gujarati texts, or where Gujarati was used to write Telugu verse. Any
Nepali texts in Tamil script ?
RB> This is a dumb insinuation and question. Ofcourse assamese was not used
to write tamil and vice versa.
here is an example at any rate:
brahmi related scripts like khojki and and others were used for sindhi and
neighbouring languages, gurmukhi for punjabi etc arabic was also used for
the same languages as well as hindi and others I am sure with lower usage in
eastern or southern india.
By the way I learnt nagari but never learnt the bengali script per se, but
just picked up a book and started to read and found myself  fluent enough in
a day or so, since all we have really are a change of fonts. It helped that
I was a native speaker. But you could write bengali in nagari for all I
care, it would make no difference.
SA> So, during the early Delhi Sultanate, Urdu was spoken by the "lower
classes" and not the elite. Towards the end of the Mughal Empire, it is the
evil elite which speaks Urdu, while the "lower class" Muslims suddenly
forget it and learn a Prakrit.
RB> No it was spoken but not recognized as an elite language. The elite
language remained persian till aurangzeb's time when urdu came into its own.
SA> Most Hindus, even UP upper castes, do not understand the Modern Standard
Hindi. Instead, they speak the local Prakrit at home, and Hindustani when in
other states.
RB> Wow how could they not understand it but speak it when in other states.
What are you saying?
SA> Indeed, school Hindi is merely a Sanskritised form of Hindustani, which
is in turn derived from Urdu.
RB> This is completely ridiculous
Urdu is a basically an indic language with substituted persian vocabulary.
If urdu had an original morphology of its own. then it could have been like
persian or some sort of creole persian. However a good sentence in hndi is a
good sentence in bengali, gujju and tamil but not a good sentencein arabic
or persian. Dont even see what there is to argue here , this is so dumb..




