From giravani at JUNO.COM  Sun Nov 26 14:19:35 2000
From: giravani at JUNO.COM (Narayan R. Joshi)
Date: Sun, 26 Nov 00 14:19:35 +0000
Subject: Digital Magic in Prehistory of India
Message-ID: <161227064616.23782.7835130306357805885.generated@prod2.harmonylists.io>

Kuru Prince Arjuna married Yadu princess SubhadrA(sister of Lord Krishna)
and they were cross cousins and hence they were Dravidians. In the
book "India Languages" published by the Publication Division of Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting, Govt.of India,1968, on p.21 it was mentioned
that VyAsa was three-fourths non-Aryan. He could be Dravidian because he
was "so so" in his looks. So Vidura, DritarAshtra(blind king) and Pandu
were Dravidians. So Mahabharat war heroes including Lord Krishna were
Dravidians.According to Prof.Witzel, the "Great Battle" was of legendary
nature (Please correct me if I understood wrong).Lord Krishna had war with
Indra, the king of Devas. So fair/white color RV Aryan Indra making
aggression against Dravidians of India was real but dark/brown color
Mahabharat Dravidian heroes were legendary.Not only that one has to
trace "archetypes" of Dravidian heroes from legendary Mahabharat into real
Aryan Rigvedic battle of ten kings. When fair color Aryan Lord RAma comes
from Afghanistan sitting on the horse through Khyber pass , he is real but
dark/brown color Dravidian hero Lord RAma from within India, is legendary.
Not only that his river (Haroyu) also arrives before him from Afghanistan.
Yellowish white ancestry of Lord Buddha from Central Asia/Mongolia is real
but dark/brown Indian Buddha could be legendary. When it comes to discuss
the Negroid features of some (not all)Dravidians against the white color
Aryans, they are real. When it comes to describe the high moral standards
and heroic deeds of the ancient Indian Dravidian heroes, they become
legendary. Now they are "on", now they are "off".If they ever found to be
real, they origins must be traced to far away places like Central Asia,
Mongolia and above all to Negroid Africa. According to Prof.Witzel,the
Dravidians hardly had any previous contact with Indo-Aryans while still in
Iran(p.33-Substrate Languages in Old Indo-Aryan). Thus the interaction
between Dravidans and Aryans is "off" in Iran/Cetral Asia but it is "on" in
India. Aryans were in their Urheimat(cute and neat in Iran and Afghanistan)
but DRavidians had to be imported to India from all over the world. If
somebody says to me, the "Great Battle" was real but heroes were legendary.
In that case my question is who faught the battle? Faceless Dravidian
traders? If somebody says heroes were real but "Great Battle" was
legendary. In that case my question is what the heroes were doing? Selling
spices?. Thanks.




