[INDOLOGY] Call for Applications: "Visiting Scholars Programme at
 FLAME University"
Colleagues,
Sharing the "Visiting Scholars Programme at FLAME University" details at:
https://www.flame.edu.in/contact-us/jobs-at-flame/visiting-scholars-programme
Accepting applications for Fall 2022
Overview
To promote cutting-edge research, advance international presence and foster
a strategic alliance with the larger academic community, FLAME University
will invite mid-career to senior/distinguished scholars and practitioners
in the areas of Arts, Sciences, Humanities, Management and Social Sciences.
Scholars who are actively conducting interdisciplinary research and have
made substantive contributions in their fields are welcome to explore this
programme.
What can scholars expect under this programme?
This fully residential programme will host scholars from a minimum of 8
weeks to 24 weeks. Visiting scholars that are foreign nationals must
possess a valid visa that will enable them to visit FLAME University to
plan and execute their research. While FLAME University will provide all
necessary documentation for applying for an appropriate visa, the
responsibility of obtaining a visa will rest with the visiting scholar.
All scholars under this program will receive administrative and logistical
support (e.g., visa, accommodation, library access, internet, etc.) from
FLAME University during their visit. Additionally, FLAME University may
commit travel support (economy class roundtrip air fare) and a consolidated
honorarium to the scholars hosted under this programme.
Who can apply?
The candidate applying to the Visiting Scholars Program must meet the
following minimum criteria:
   - Must be an Associate Professor (or above) at an international
   university (preferably QS ranking <=100) . Candidates from India must be a
   full-time faculty member (Associate Professor or above) from IITs, IIMs,
   IISERs or a public/private university/institute that has been declared as
   an Institute of Eminence (IoE) by the Government of India.
   - Must have at least 5 publications in top journals in the area of
   proposed work.
How to apply?
All interested scholars should find a collaborating faculty member at
FLAME. The FLAME faculty member (?Host Faculty?) in collaboration with the
potential scholar would then submit a 1500-to-2000-word *joint proposal**to
the Vice Chancellor (VC), through the Dean. The proposal will be evaluated
based on its potential high-impact contribution to the field and its
ability to demonstrate how the presence of the visiting scholar may advance
FLAME?s mission to emerge as a leading research university. The proposal
must include the following items:
   - The objective(s) of the study
   - Data and methods
   - The nature of collaboration: defining the roles and responsibilities
   of the collaborators
   - Timeline of the project
   - A concise, updated resume of the visiting scholar, with a list of 5
   recent publications (with DOIs)
   - expected outcome(s): Clearly specify the anticipated deliverables
   (i.e., peer-reviewed journal articles; book contracts; chapters in edited
   volume; developing proposals for high-impact large international grants;
   patents etc.) expected out of this temporary engagement. Other academic
   activities as part of deliverables may include conducting joint research
   workshops/consortiums, certificate courses, teaching
   collaborations/co-teaching responsibilities (will include some grading
   duties for the scholar)
   - The scholar and the host faculty may choose 1 or more of the above
   options as the deliverables to be accomplished during the residency term
Thanks and regards,
Pankaj Jain, Ph.D., ???? ??? <https://www.flame.edu.in/faculty/pankaj-jain>
Head, Humanities and Languages
Chair, The India Centre
Professor, Philosophy & Religious Studies
FLAME University
https://flame.academia.edu/PankajJain
@ProfPankajJain
