[INDOLOGY] Fwd: Job Posting at UPenn/Sanskrit Lecturer
References: <BLAPR10MB53132154EB2778C5C609011C87789@BLAPR10MB5313.namprd10.prod.outlook.com>
Job Posting at UPenn/Sanskrit Lecturer
Hello,
I was wondering if it would be possible to post the attached Sanskrit
Lecturer via the Indology listserv (posting is with UPenn)?
Many thaks,
Chip Bagnall
Department Administrator
Department of South Asia Studies
University of Pennsylvania
820 Williams Hall
cbagnall at sas.upenn.edu
(215) 898-7475
plain text:
The South Asia Studies Department at the University of Pennsylvania invites
applications for a full-
time appointment as Lecturer in Sanskrit. The appointment will begin in
August 2022 and includes
teaching six courses per academic year. This appointment will be for one
academic year with the
possibility of annual renewal for up to an additional two years, contingent
upon a satisfactory
performance review and approval of the Dean.
The appointee will be expected to contribute to the long-term quality,
stability and development of
the Sanskrit program at Penn. Candidates must have research and teaching
experience in Sanskrit.
A PhD or near-PhD is strongly preferred. Preference will be given to
candidates with proven
creativity and pedagogical success in the design and delivery of courses,
particularly at the
elementary and intermediate levels of instruction.
Applications will be reviewed starting January 31 2022 and will continue
until the position is filled.
Applications should be submitted on-line at
http://apply.interfolio.com/100232 and include a cover
letter, a curriculum vitae, a statement of language pedagogy philosophy and
experience, a statement
of research interests, and the names and contact information of three
individuals who will provide a
letter of recommendation. Recommenders will be contacted by the University
with instructions on
how to submit a letter of recommendation to the website. Please direct all
inquiries to Dr. Davesh
Soneji (dsoneji at upenn.edu), Dr. Daud Ali (daudali at sas.upenn.edu) or Chip
Bagnall
(cbagnall at sas.upenn.edu).
The Department of South Asia Studies is strongly committed to Penn?s Action
Plan for Faculty
Diversity and Excellence and to creating a more diverse faculty (for more
information
see: http://www.upenn.edu/almanac/volumes/v58/n02/diversityplan.html). The
University of
Pennsylvania is an EOE. Minorities/Women/Individuals with
disabilities/Protected Veterans are
encouraged to apply.
The University of Pennsylvania values diversity and seeks talented
students, faculty and staff from
diverse backgrounds. The University of Pennsylvania does not discriminate
on the basis of race,
color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, national
or ethnic origin, citizenship
status, age, disability, veteran status or any other legally protected
class status in the administration
of its admissions, financial aid, educational or athletic programs, or
other University-administered
programs or in its employment practices. Questions or complaints regarding
this policy should be
directed to the Executive Director of the Office of Affirmative Action and
Equal Opportunity
Programs, Sansom Place East, 3600 Chestnut Street, Suite 228, Philadelphia,
PA 19104-6106; or
(215) 898-6993 (Voice) or (215) 898-7803 (TDD).
