[INDOLOGY] abbreviations, another question
Dear List Members,
Before asking another, related, question I would like to thank the members for their replies to my question about the abbreviation of A Dictionary of Pali. On the advice of Aleix Ruiz-Falqu?s I have opted for DOP, who showed me that this is the abbreviation used by the editor Margaret Cone herself.
In a book edited by the publisher all my references in the running text (e.g. Tieken (2010)) have been relegated to footnotes providing the full bibliographical details, which are also provided in the Bibliography (in the manuscript I submitted called ?References?).  A reference to Oskar von Hin?ber 2001 results in a footnote of three or four lines (Oskar von Hin?ber, Das ?ltere Mittelindisch im ?berblick, Sitzungsberichte der ?sterreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften, Philosophisch-historische Klasse, Band 467, Ver?ffentlichungen der Kommission f?r Sprachen und Kulturen S?dasiens, Heft 20, Wien: Verlag der ?sterreichischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, 2001, pp. XX-XX. In the footnotes I would like to introduce abbreviations. I am uncertain, however, of S?AW, Phil-hist. Klasse 467 is generally recognized or acceptable (I do provide a list of abbreviations immediately after the acknowledgements).
The same question arises in connection with AAWG and AAWLM, Abhandlungen der Akademie der Wissenschaftern in G?ttingen. Philologisch historische Klasse and Abhandlungen der Akademie der Wissenschaften und der Literatur, Mainz, Geistes- und Sozialwissenschaftliche Klasse, Jahrgang 1962,. Nr. 1, respectively.
Furthermore, I have been unable to find abbreviations of, for instance, Monographien f?r indischen Arch?ologie, Kunst and Philologie; I can make one myself: MIAKP, or for Schriftenreihe des Caulfeild-Meisezahl Instituts f?r Hochasienforschung: SCMIHF. Both abbreviations, however, look like those nonsense words found in graffiti.
Is there a list of standard abbreviations which includes these Abhandlungen, Sitzungsberichten, Monographien and Schriftenreihen? Or should I accept extremely long footnotes?
With kind regards,
Herman
Herman Tieken
Stationsweg 58
2515 BP Den Haag
The Netherlands
00 31 (0)70 2208127
website: hermantieken.com<http://hermantieken.com/>
