[INDOLOGY] WFU Job Position: 1 Year Visiting Assistant Professor in
 Buddhist Studies
Job Description Summary
WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY?s Department for the Study of Religions is 
seeking applications for a one-year, non-tenure-track Visiting Assistant 
Professor position in Buddhist Studies with a focus on East Asia, 
Southeast Asia, or North America. The position begins July 1, 2022.
Job Description:
The successful candidate will be ABD or hold a Ph.D. in Religious 
Studies. Applicants must be able to teach Introduction to Buddhist 
Traditions and are encouraged to teach one course in their own area of 
expertise. Total teaching load will be 3-3 for the 2022-2023 academic 
year. Evidence of teaching excellence and commitment to the training and 
professional development of undergraduates is required.
Wake Forest University is a private, coeducational institution dedicated 
to academic excellence in liberal arts, graduate, and professional 
education. Founded in 1834, the University is ranked among the top 
thirty national universities, and 5th for undergraduate teaching among 
national universities. With 5,440 undergraduates and 3,350 graduate and 
professional students, the student-faculty ratio is 11:1. Wake Forest is 
a collegiate university offering a vibrant intellectual community with a 
rich cultural life, an impressive array of facilities and an active 
athletics community. The University has a deep institutional commitment 
to public service and engagement with the world, as indicated by the 
motto ?pro humanitate.?? For quick facts about the University, go to 
https://admissions.wfu.edu/facts/.
Wake Forest is located in Winston-Salem, North Carolina ? part of the 
beautiful Piedmont Triad metropolitan region which has a population of 
more than 1.5 million and is listed among the top 35 best places to live 
in North America by Cities Ranked and Rated. Known as the state?s ?City 
of the Arts,? Winston-Salem offers a vast array of arts experiences 
ranging from music venues to galleries to theatre and film festivals. 
The city is also ranked among the top 50 US cities for affordability on 
national surveys.
Wake Forest University welcomes and encourages diversity and seeks 
applicants with demonstrated success in working with diverse 
populations. Wake Forest seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce 
to maintain the excellence of the University, and to offer students 
richly varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.
Applications will be accepted until March 1st, 2022 at 5pm. Applicants 
are to submit in a single pdf document 1) a cover letter describing the 
applicant?s qualifications and interests, and 2) a curriculum vitae. 
Cover letters should address the candidate?s approach to addressing 
diversity and inclusion in the classroom. Applications should be 
submitted as one PDF to https://hr.wfu.edu/careers/. Cover letters and 
questions about the position may be addressed to Lynn Neal, Chair of the 
Department. The submission of an online application with Wake Forest 
University is required for this position.
Additional Job Description
In furtherance of the University?s commitment to resuming operations in 
a manner consistent with or similar to how those operations were 
conducted prior to the pandemic, and in an effort to protect the health 
and safety of the campus community, all faculty and staff are required 
to be fully vaccinated with an FDA approved or authorized COVID-19 
vaccine and an influenza vaccine. Faculty and staff with disabilities or 
sincerely held religious beliefs that preclude vaccination should 
contact Human Resources to request a reasonable accommodation.
Time Type Requirement
Full time
In order to provide a safe and productive learning and living community, 
Wake Forest University conducts background investigations for all final 
faculty candidates being considered for employment.
Wake Forest seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce while 
promoting an inclusive work environment committed to excellence in the 
spirit of Pro Humanitate. In adherence with applicable laws and as 
provided by University policies, the University prohibits discrimination 
in its employment practices on the basis of race, color, religion, 
national origin, sex, age, sexual orientation, gender identity and 
expression, genetic information, disability and veteran status and 
encourages qualified candidates across all group demographics to apply.
Jarrod Whitaker, PhD
Professor for the Study of Religions
Department for the Study of Religions
Wake Forest University
1834 Wake Forest Rd
Winston-Salem, NC, 27106
336.758.4162
whitakjl at wfu.edu
