[INDOLOGY] AAR 2022 CFP: Indian and Chinese Religions Compared Unit
Dear Colleagues,
Please consider this call for papers for AAR 2022.
Apologies for any cross-posting.
Indian and Chinese Religions Compared Unit
Call for Papers, AAR 2022:
We invite proposals from a wide range of disciplinary approaches exploring connections between and perspectives from the diverse traditions, regions, topics, and periods of Indian and Chinese religions. We encourage individual and panel submissions that address:
Buddhist visual culture ?  Influences between Indian and Chinese art.
We encourage proposals on Buddhist visual or material culture and the interplay between texts, images, and rituals of Buddhism within the context of its transmission from India to China up until the 11th century CE. The main focus should involve either comparing Indian and Chinese Buddhist visual and/or material cultures or aspects of either culture reflecting transmitted influences.
To express interest to submit a paper proposal please contact Dessi Vendova (dvendova at gtu.edu<mailto:dvendova at gtu.edu>)
History of Emotions in India and China
While attention to the history of emotions has increased in Europe in recent decades, primarily focused on its history in Europe, the rich traditions of India and China on the subject have received less attention, though deserved. For instance, in India aesthetics and rasa theory in contrast to ascetic and meditative analysis of positive and negative emotions permeate cultural sensibilities. The model of ?seven emotions? (or drives) in ancient China diversified over the centuries, including incorporating Buddhist models, medical theories, etc. We invite proposals on the history of emotions in India and/or China. If interested in submitting a proposal, please contact Esther-Maria Guggenmos (esther-maria.guggenmos at fau.de<mailto:esther-maria.guggenmos at fau.de>)
The ?Qizil Yoga Manual? and Yogic Meditation on the Silk Road
The ?Qizil Yoga Manual? is a Buddhist text on meditation, found in the Kucha region on the northern Silk Road, and pieced together from manuscript fragments by Dieter Schlingloff in the 1960s. This panel topic invites proposals that relate to the ?Qizil Yoga Manual? itself or the transmission of Indian texts on and knowledge of meditation or yogic-related practices into China. To express interest to submit a paper proposal please contact Karen O?Brien-Kop (karen.obrien-kop at roehampton.ac.uk).
Contemporary Spiritual Technologies in Indian and Chinese Contexts
How do popular contemporary practices in the Indian and Chinese worlds draw selectively on earlier traditions, adapt techniques from outside Asia, or develop something new?  What roles are played by aspects of modern life, such as cultural identity, scientific discourse, political currents, national borders, and transnational flows?  Are these techniques and technologies distinctly local, or do they reflect larger international forces and concerns?  And does it make sense to think in terms of ?the spiritual? in these contexts at all?  To enhance panel cohesion and interaction, participants in this panel will engage in discussion and mutual feedback in the months leading up to the conference.
To express interest to submit a paper proposal please contact Jon Keune (keunejon at msu.edu)
Responses to Catastrophe/Disaster in India and China
To link with the presidential theme of ?catastrophe? at AAR 2022, this panel invites proposals that discuss how themes and events of catastrophe and disaster have been responded to in the religious discourses, texts and practices of India and China. Proposals can address themes and perspectives in historical and/or modern contexts.
To express interest to submit a paper proposal please contact: Eyal Aviv and Karen O?Brien-Kop
(karen.obrien-kop at roehampton.ac.uk<mailto:karen.obrien-kop at roehampton.ac.uk> and aviv at email.gwu.edu<mailto:aviv at email.gwu.edu>)
Please direct any general unit enquiries to the co-chairs: Eyal Aviv and Karen O?Brien-Kop
(karen.obrien-kop at roehampton.ac.uk<mailto:karen.obrien-kop at roehampton.ac.uk> and aviv at email.gwu.edu<mailto:aviv at email.gwu.edu>)
Best wishes
Dr. Karen O'Brien-Kop (FHEA)
Lecturer in Asian Religions and Ethics
Convenor Y1: BA Philosophy, Religion & Ethics; BA Philosophy
Howard 112, School of Humanities
University of Roehampton, London SW15 5PH
New book here<https://www.bloomsbury.com/uk/rethinking-classical-yoga-and-buddhism-9781350229990/> Rethinking ?Classical Yoga? and Buddhism: Meditation, Metaphors, Materiality (Bloomsbury 2021)
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended solely for the addressee and may also be privileged or exempt from disclosure under applicable law. If you are not the addressee, or have received this e-mail in error, please notify the sender immediately, delete it from your system and do not copy, disclose or otherwise act upon any part of this email or its attachments.
Internet communications are not guaranteed to be secure or virus-free. University of Roehampton does not accept responsibility for any loss arising from unauthorised access to, or interference with, any Internet communications by any third party, or from the transmission of any viruses.
Any opinion or other information in this e-mail or its attachments that does not relate to the business of University of Roehampton is personal to the sender and is not given or endorsed by University of Roehampton.
University of Roehampton is the trading name of Roehampton University, a company limited by guarantee incorporated in England under number 5161359. Registered Office: Grove House, Roehampton Lane, London SW15 5PJ. An exempt charity.
