[INDOLOGY] Call for Papers - The 38th Annual Sanskrit Traditions
 Symposium
*The 38th Annual Sanskrit Traditions Symposium*
*Friday 27th May 2022*
Hosted online by the Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies
The 37th annual The Sanskrit Traditions Symposium will take place *online* on
Friday 27th May, 2022, hosted by the Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies. We
invite proposals for papers on any aspect of South Asia?s
rich Sanskrit religious and intellectual culture.
Proposals of 300-500 words should be submitted by *Monday 7th March 2022*.
They should be sent to the organising committee: *stimw at ochs.org.uk
<stimw at ochs.org.uk>.*
*Papers and Format *- Papers are presented by leading scholars in the field
as well as by research students. Papers are pre-circulated so that
participants can read them before the seminar to ensure the best possible
use of discussion time. Papers are therefore *not* read out at the seminar
itself but instead briefly introduced by the chair who will then raise
questions to the paper-giver, before opening the discussion. Papers should
be no longer than 20 A4 pages, including notes and references. To
facilitate discussion for those short of reading time, paper-givers should
provide a one-page abstract of the key argument of the paper, along with
their paper. Please include your email address for further feedback.
The Sanskrit Traditions Symposium is a forum for the discussion of the
Sanskrit traditions of South Asia, and the texts and cultures that have
arisen out of them. This event, formerly known as Sanskrit Tradition in the
Modern World (STIMW), was renamed, in consultation with past and current
organisers, The Sanskrit Traditions Symposium, to better reflect the
direction that the event has taken in well over a decade. The Sanskrit
Traditions Symposium continues the format and spirit of STIMW, which
fosters focussed conversation on pre-circulated papers.
Dr. Rembert Lutjeharms
Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies
13-15 Magdalen Street
Oxford OX1 3AE United Kingdom
Tel.: +44 (0)1865 304300
