[INDOLOGY] Special Issue on Magic,
 Supernatural and Danger in South and Southeast Asia
Hi Paolo,
Would you be so kind as to tell us to which journal you are proposing this?
thanks in advance,
Matthew
Get Outlook for iOS<https://aka.ms/o0ukef>
Sent: Sunday, February 6, 2022 9:29:49 PM
[INDOLOGY] Special Issue on Magic, Supernatural and Danger in South and Southeast Asia
Dear Indologists,
I am looking for one or two article's proposal that will discuss folk and/or vernacular and/or tribal and/or tantric traditions in Southeast Asia for a special issue I am going to edit, (provisionally) entitled: "Magic, Supernatural and Danger: Religions at the 'Periphery' of South and Southeast Asia".
It would be great if you could circulate this informal call to anyone that could be interested. The special issue is planned to be published in a double-blind peer-reviewed journal. The first manuscript draft should be submitted by September/October 2022.
Sincerely,
Paolo
Special issue's summary (draft):
South and Southeast Asian folk and indigenous religions share several socio-cultural and religious traits with Tantra. Indeed, through processes of ?parochialization? and ?universalization? (Marriott 1955), Tantra succeeded in adapting pan-Indian cults to the religious needs of local, low-caste, and often illiterate societies and vice versa. Tantra, then, is a cultural bridge that can link mainstream pan-Indian traditions with local, vernacular, low-caste, folk and indigenous traditions. These societies, which often rely on the oral transmission of their belief narratives, have too often been mislabelled by colonial rhetoric as ?little? in contraposition to the ?great? Indic traditions (Redfield 1955; Singer 1972). Instead, local religious phenomena underscore a complex polymorphism whose origins are to be found in the intersection of primitive religious systems?such as the ?proto-??kta tradition? (Samuel 2008) and its worship of mother goddess?and pan-Indian religions.
Several folk, low-caste and indigenous religions such as Tantra are very often involved in the worship of fierce female deities (alone or in conjunction with a male partner) through the ritual use and consumption of substances, which the Brahmanical and non-Brahmanical socio-cultural mainstream designated as defiled, contaminated, and therefore prohibited?such as blood, semen, vaginal discharge, menstrual fluid, bone marrow, urine, faeces, ashes, bones (and skulls), raw meat, liquors, intoxicating herbs, etc. However, these substances, according to the high-caste Sanskrit literature and oral narratives, are an invaluable source of power that was associated with and, in a sense, generated by the liminality, transgression, and impurity of the ?margins? of society (Urban 2009).
