[INDOLOGY] Thangka query
Dear Colleagues
As a number of you have been downloading the images of the mystery thangka, I thought you might be interested in reading this explanation of the iconography, sent to me by Matthew Kapstein and shared with his permission:
'I think that Avalokite?vara should be imagined as being at the center of his "field", Mt. Potalaka. In the Tibetan iconography of buddha fields, various divinities inhabit the clouds and figures representing those who have attained siddhi - not necessarily arhats (though arhats are also possible here) - are flying about. 
'One of the curious features of this thangka is the presence of four pavilions each with a presiding Buddha, the red Buddha 
to the upper left being clearly Amit?bha, the chief of Avalokite?vara's "family." I'm not sure that the other Buddhas can be identified, but I believe that the thangka is referring to the notion that the inhabitants of any one "field" can marvelously visit other fields all about the universe, at any time they wish, in order to hear the Dharma as taught by the Buddhas in all directions.
'The eight seated figures, four on either side of Avalokite?vara,  are clearly the eight major bodhisattvas, one of whom is in fact another form of Avalokite?vara.  The eight are most often shown accompanying Buddhas, Amit?bha in particular, though they may also be seen with Vairocana, Amoghasiddhi, ??kyamuni, etc., and were quite current in later Indian as well as East Asian Buddhist art. 
'I would date the thangka to the 19th c. and suggest that the provenance is Inner Mongolia, but, as I have not examined the work directly and because there has been no pertinent material analysis of which I am aware, that's just to be taken as guesswork.?
This certainly seems to explain the unusual features of this thangka. 
The Dropbox link to download the images of the thangka will vanish tonight at midnight GMT, and I cannot renew it without subscribing to a professional Dropbox account which I wouldn?t otherwise use. But if anyone else would like to look at the images, I am happy to email them.
Valerie J Roebuck
Manchester, UK
