[INDOLOGY] Three-day National Seminar (OFFLINE) on Historical
 Development of Indian Temple Architecture and Construction Styles
Namaste!
Dear all,
Amrita Darshanam, International Centre for Spiritual Studies (ICSS), Amrita
Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Bangalore takes great pleasure to inform you that the
Centre in a collaboration with the Indian Council of Historical Research
(ICHR, GoI) is organizing a Three-day National Seminar (OFFLINE) on
Historical Development of Indian Temple Architecture and Construction Styles*
during 8**th - 10th April 2022.*
The proposed seminar is an attempt to throw light on the chronological
development of different styles of temple architecture and constructional
methodology as found in India. The presentations will be from historical
and architectural perspectives and will also draw elements from the
canonical texts related to temples.
Distinguished speakers of the seminar-
1. Padma Shree Dr. K. K. Muhammed
2. Prof. Kanippayyur Krishnan Krishnan Namboothiripad
3. Dr. G. B. Deglurkar
4. Dr. M. S. Krishna Murthy
5. Dr. Adam Hardy
6. Dr. Satya Murthy
7. Dr. Ravikumar Mohanty
8. Dr. Madhulika Samanta
9. Dr. Srinivasa Sistla
10. Dr. Preeta Nayar
11. Dr. Manjiri Bhalerao
12. Dr. Shrikant Ganvir
13. Dr. Manoj Gundanna
14. Dr. Libbie Mills
15. Ar. Madhusudhanan Kalaichelvan
16. Dr. D. Kiran Kranth Choudary,
*Call for papers-*
*We invite you to contribute abstracts for the Seminar. We strongly
encourage students, scholars, research students, and interested
participants to contribute their papers to the seminar. Please visit the
link and brochure for the thematic areas and dates. We are still accepting
the abstracts.*
For more details and for registration please visit our website:
http://amrita.edu/ad/shac
Please find attached the brochure and poster for more information.
Thank you.
Looking forward to your participation.
Regards,
Manish Rajan Walvekar (Convener)
9757405466/9892220210
r_manish at blr.amrita.edu
&
Dr. Tanashree Redij (Co-Convener)
9545955182
r_tanashree at blr.amrita.edu
Amrita Darshanam International Centre for Spiritual Studies,
Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham,
Bangalore.
Regards,
Manish Rajan Walvekar
Assistant Professor and Centre Coordinator
Amrita Darshanam International Centre for Spiritual Studies
Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham
Bangalore.
|| ????? ??????? ??? ||
