From Heleen.DeJonckheere at UGent.be  Thu Mar 31 17:18:22 2022
From: Heleen.DeJonckheere at UGent.be (Heleen De Jonckheere)
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2022 17:18:22 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Summer School on the Languages and Literatures of Jainism
Message-ID: <VI1PR09MB4285C347C5CEE7C8486DC1C382E19@VI1PR09MB4285.eurprd09.prod.outlook.com>

Dear all,

It is my pleasure to announce the second Annual Summer School on the Languages and Literatures of Jainism at the University of Toronto, which will be held, after a two-year pandemic pause, from August 2nd to August 7th 2022 in hybrid format.  The description below gives further details. Please circulate this call widely, especially among interested graduate students. We also want to encourage students from South-Asia to participate online, if visa requirements limit their in-person attendance.

If you have any further questions, do not hesitate to contact me.

All the best,

Heleen De Jonckheere
heleen.dejonckheere at utoronto.ca<mailto:heleen.dejonckheere at utoronto.ca>


The 2022 Annual Summer School on the Languages and Literatures of Jainism will take place at the Mississauga campus of the University of Toronto from August 2nd to August 7th 2022 in person, with the option to participate online as well. This year's Summer School will focus on reading and contextualizing literature in Apabhra??a, an understudied but important classical literary language in which Jain authors in particular wrote numerous poetic works. The Summer School will provide in-depth knowledge of Apabhra??a language, prosody and literary genres and discuss the important contribution by Jains to this lesser studied part of India's literary culture.
The daily reading sessions will be led by prof. Eva De Clercq from Ghent University (Belgium) who is a specialist of Apabhra??a and of Jain literature in general, and who recently published the first English translation of the oldest extant Apabhra??a work (Murty Classical Library of India). Besides the reading sessions there will be guest lectures on Jain Apabhra??a literature and its place within Indian classical literature as well as social activities such as a visit to a local Jain temple.

Each day will consist of two sessions: a morning reading session on a text that will be continued for the duration of the workshop and an afternoon session in which we will explore a wider variety of Jain and non-Jain Apabhra??a texts. In addition, several days will have an afternoon lecture. Since the Summer School is language focused, we ask participants to have an intermediate knowledge of Sanskrit, Prakrit or Old-Hindi.

There are no fees associated with attending the workshop itself, and funding for room and board is available for a limited number of graduate students from outside the GTA. In order to secure the health and safety for all participants we ask of everyone to be fully vaccinated.

Interested candidates for this Summer School should apply by sending their CV and a 200-word motivation detailing how this workshop helps them in their research. This is asked of both in-person as well as online participants. Candidates who apply for in-person participation should also provide proof of vaccination. The deadline for applications is May 20th 2022. You will receive a response from us by May 30th 2022.

Please send your applications as well as any further inquiries to Heleen De Jonckheere, heleen.dejonckheere at utoronto.ca<mailto:heleen.dejonckheere at utoronto.ca>





Dr. Heleen De Jonckheere
Bhagavan Sheetalnath postdoctoral fellow
Dept. of Historical Studies, Centre for South Asian Civilizations
University of Toronto at Mississauga
3359 Mississauga Rd., Maanjiwe nendamowinan
Mississauga, ON L5L1C6
heleen.dejonckheere at utoronto.ca


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20220331/b51f5293/attachment.htm>

