[INDOLOGY] Job Opening: Research Fellowship in Theravada Buddhist
 Studies
Dear colleagues,
Please find below an advert for a research fellowship in Theravada Buddhist Studies. Feel free to message me if you would like further information and please do pass this on to whoever you think may be interested.
Best wishes
Alastair Gornall
Singapore University of Technology and Design
The Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences department at the Singapore University of Technology and Design invites applications for the position of research fellow in Theravada Buddhist Studies. During the two to three-year research fellowship, the chosen candidate will contribute to a project digitising, editing, and studying monastic cosmological and ecological literature composed in Southeast Asia before 1800. Alongside working on the project, the candidate will have the opportunity to pursue their own research and may be able to teach undergraduate courses in their area of expertise. The project begins on 1 August 2022, and the candidate can start as soon as the relevant government authorities process and approve their work pass after this date.
The research fellow?s responsibilities will include:
?      Transcribing primary sources in Southeast Asian scripts into Roman script
?      Creating diplomatic and critical editions of unedited primary sources
?      Conducting archival fieldwork in regional libraries and manuscript collections
?      Conducting historical research and co-authoring publications
Qualifications and competencies:
?      A Ph.D. in Buddhist Studies, Asian Studies, or another relevant discipline (essential)
?      A proficiency in the Pali language (essential)
?      An ability to read Thai or another Southern Asian language (desirable)
?      Experience in the criticism and editing of texts (desirable)
Interested applicants should contact Alastair Gornall (alastair_gornall at sutd.edu.sg<mailto:alastair_gornall at sutd.edu.sg>) with a CV, the contact details of two referees, and a short letter of application. The deadline for applications is 18 April 2022. We will notify the candidates selected for an interview by 1 May 2022.
This email may contain confidential and/or proprietary information that is exempt from disclosure under applicable law and is intended for receipt and use solely by the addressee(s) named above. If you are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination, distribution, or copying of this email, or any attachment, is strictly prohibited. Please delete the email immediately and inform the sender. Thank You
