[INDOLOGY] Indic rendering
References: <!&!AAAAAAAAAAAYAAAAAAAAAKVte7Lsr65AmUltyDKajabCgAAAEAAAANd2DOFif3dNu73uHUyEYYwBAAAAAA==@matfyz.cz>
Dear Jan,
I am not sure this is what you are after, but I am aware of the following
problems. I am not sure the Devanagari renderings I see on my screen will
be duplicated in this email, but I try to give illustrations. All of these
are on a Windows platform.
1. Some fonts that compose ligatures with a vir?ma incorrectly position a
short i attached to the conjunct. Thus, e.g., the conjunct dmi has a
"proper ligature" form in the font Arial Unicode MS and short i is attached
correctly before it, ???? . The same conjunct does not have a precomposed
glyph in the font Mangal but uses a d with vir?ma, followed by mi, ???? .
The expected form would be to have the dependent i before the d with
vir?ma. Interestingly, Arial Unicode MS renders correctly even when a
ligature involves a vir?ma, so dghri in that font has the i before the
whole thing, ?????? , whereas Mangal of course puts the i after the
d+vir?ma, ?????? . The positioning of superscript repha is also off in some
fonts when a conjunct with vir?ma is involved; thus, Mangal presents rddhi
as ??????  (repha on d with vir?ma, followed by dhi). Interestingly (I've
just noticed this while testing combinations),  there is a partial problem
in Arial Unicode too. If I compose rdghri, then (at least in MS Word) it
appears with two rephas: one on ?? and another on ??? (with the short i
positioned correctly to the left of the whole).
2. Certain (most? all?) Adobe products fail completely at rendering
Devanagari ligatures. I am aware of this occurring (perhaps not in
identical ways) in InDesign and Photoshop. Conjuncts get split into
consonant+vir?ma combinations; thus, e.g. dghra renders as ?? ?? ? (without
the spaces). Moreover, short i is rendered at its logical position rather
than where it ought to be, so in dghri, the short i marker *follows* the
above sequence, attached to thin air.
All the best,
Daniel
On Mon, 30 May 2022 at 15:44, Jan Ku?era <jan.kucera at matfyz.cz> wrote:
