[INDOLOGY] Call to publish from The World of the Orient
Dear all,
Please see below an announcement to publish, which was sent out by our
Ukrainian colleagues.
Best,
Sam Grimes
Dear Colleagues,
On behalf of *The World of the Orient*, Ukraine?s leading periodical in the
broader field of Asian Studies, we would like to invite you to contribute
to a special issue ?Indology, South Asian and Buddhist studies? dedicated
to the memory of an important Ukrainian Indologist and translator Pavlo
Ritter, whose 150 birth anniversary Ukraine celebrates this year. The
original plan was to commemorate this anniversary in the form of a series
of events under the umbrella of the ?Year of Indology?, but due to the
difficulties caused by the Russian aggression, most events have been
postponed or canceled. Nevertheless, we have not given up on the plan to
dedicate an issue of our journal to Indian studies. We are happy to invite
Indologists, Tibetologists, Buddhologists as well as scholars working on
different aspects of traditional South Asia to contribute to this special
issue of our peer-reviewed journal.
If you are interested in contributing, we would kindly ask you to send the
proposed title and abstract of your contribution by *5 June *to
markovdmytro6 at gmail.com. This is necessary to help with the planning of the
issue. The final submission will be expected by 25 October 2022.
Prof. Pavlo Ritter (1872 -1939) was an outstanding scholar and translator
from Oriental languages (Sanskrit, Pali, Bengali) who worked and taught in
Kharkiv, Kharkiv University. He was the first translator of Sanskrit and
Pali texts into Ukrainian. His works include the translations of Indian
Classics, including the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, as well as some
Jataka texts and a few Pali classical works. Unfortunately a career and
life of the pioneering Ukrainian Indologist ended tragically: he was
arrested in the late 1930s and died in prison.
*Skhidnyj Svit* (*The World of the Orient*) is a quarterly peer-reviewed
academic journal published by the *A. Yu. Krymsk**iy Institute of Oriental
Studies of **National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine*, Kyiv, Ukraine. The
journal publishes articles on topical issues of the past and present of the
Orient, Oriental languages and literatures, Ukrainian contacts with the
Oriental countries, bibliographic surveys and reviews, as well as
information about scientific conferences. Also the publications dedicated
to the Crimean studies, Caucasian studies, African studies and Eastern
Diasporas in different parts of the world are welcomed. Original articles
of Ukrainian and foreign authors as well as the translations of Oriental
historical, religious and literary sources are published.
The journal was first published in 1927 under the aegis of the
All-Ukrainian Scientific Association of Oriental Studies. In 1931 the
publication ceased. In 1993, after 62-year hiatus, the A. Yu. Krymsky
Institute of Oriental Studies of Academy of Sciences of Ukraine resumed the
publication.
Website of the journal: https://oriental-world.org.ua/
<https://www.oriental-studies.org.ua/en/main-page/>
If you have any questions please write to markovdmytro6 at gmail.com .
