From andrew.ollett at gmail.com  Mon Jul 18 02:46:10 2022
From: andrew.ollett at gmail.com (Andrew Ollett)
Date: Sun, 17 Jul 2022 21:46:10 -0500
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Postdoctoral position in Critical Caste Studies at the
 University of Chicago
Message-ID: <CAANHO16V5RAXWo9RnpetYuGK_8H+4kvYNPcw0wyrt+nrTAodiQ@mail.gmail.com>

Dear colleagues,

Please see this advertisement <https://apply.interfolio.com/109813> for a
two-year postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Chicago in the area
of Critical Caste Studies (details pasted below). Feel free to send it to
anyone you think might be interested.

Andrew

-----------------------------------------

*Description*
The Committee on Southern Asian Studies (COSAS) at the University of
Chicago invites applications for a two-year COSAS Fellowship in Critical
Caste Studies (appointed at the rank of term-limited Instructor), to begin
as early as July 1, 2023. This position is designed for early-career
scholars whose educational backgrounds have afforded them limited
opportunities with highly-selective research institutions in the United
States and Europe.

The successful candidate will be expected to conduct research in their
areas of interest; teach one course a year on topics of their choosing at
either the undergraduate or graduate level; and participate in the
intellectual life of the wider University. In addition to salary and
benefits, funds will be made available to the Fellow for pursuing their own
research, for conference travel, and for planning conferences or other
Fellowship-related events/programming.


*Qualifications*We seek a scholar working within the emergent paradigm of
critical studies of caste, inequality, and exclusion; we are particularly
interested in scholars working on projects focused on issues in Dalit
studies, Adivasi studies, and intersectional approaches between caste and
race, class, gender/sexuality, and (minoritarian) religion. Applicants may
come from any disciplinary background in the humanities or social sciences.


*Application Instructions*Applicants are required to apply online at the
University of Chicago?s Interfolio site: apply.interfolio.com/109813.

Applicants should have received their PhD within 6 years of their
appointment. Applications should include: (1) a current curriculum vitae,
including the names and contact information of at least three referees; (2)
a cover letter (2 pages) that describes your research and teaching profile,
as well as your plans for the fellowship period; the cover letter should
also briefly explain how the candidate's life experience, pedagogy, and/or
research speaks to the representation of historically underrepresented
minorities in the academy in the United States, Europe, and Southern Asia;
(3) a research statement addressing current and future plans for research
(2?3 pages); (4) a teaching statement addressing teaching experience and
philosophy (1-page); (5) a writing sample from the candidates? research of
no more than 25 pages. All materials should be in English.

Review of applicants will begin by October 15; applications will be
reviewed until the position is filled or the search has closed.
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20220717/b6aca73e/attachment.htm>

