[INDOLOGY] Job Posting: Shri Anantanatha Chair in Jain Studies at
 UW-Madison (Tenure-track Assistant Professor position)
References: <DM6PR06MB586773B598B88D371453DE50A7549@DM6PR06MB5867.namprd06.prod.outlook.com>
Dear Colleagues,
I'm happy to share the posting below for a tenure-track assistant professor position in Jain Studies at UW-Madison. Please share  this ad with potential candidates and throughout your other networks where appropriate.
All the best,
Jamal
Tenure-track Assistant Professor position in Jain Studies at UW-Madison
For full consideration, applications must be received no later than November 10, 2022
https://jobs.hr.wisc.edu/en-us/job/515554/shri-anantanatha-chair-in-jain-studies
The University of Wisconsin-Madison seeks a tenure-track assistant professor for appointment to the Shri Anantanatha Chair in Jain Studies in the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures to begin in August 2023. Candidates for this position must specialize in the study of the Jain tradition and exhibit fluency in a South Asian language (other than English) directly relevant to Jain Studies. A PhD in South Asian Studies or another relevant field is required prior to start of appointment. No specific disciplinary or methodological approach is required for this position, but an ability to engage in transdisciplinary collaboration is highly desirable. The candidate?s research and teaching should engage with core features of Jainism, such as its philosophy, history, contemplative practices, cultural expressions, or social dimensions. Candidates should have a demonstratable interest in exploring ways that aspects of Jainism, such as the emphasis on non-violence, non-attachment, and indeterminacy, can be brought to bear on contemporary issues, and the successful candidate will show a clear potential for developing outstanding research and publication on Jain Studies.
The responsibilities of this position include a robust engagement with research and publication and a commitment to teaching undergraduate and graduate courses on Jainism and on broader topics relevant to Jain Studies, including courses on aspects of South Asia or courses that extend Jain Studies into other areas, such as the environment, diversity, or conflict resolution. The typical course load is two courses per semester. Advising at undergraduate and graduate levels and consistent engagement with professional service are also expected. Public scholarship and outreach activities that share research findings and promote Jain Studies are also integral to this position.
Diversity is a source of strength, creativity, and innovation for UW-Madison. We value the contributions of each person and respect the profound ways their identity, culture, background, experience, status, abilities, and opinion enrich the university community. We commit ourselves to the pursuit of excellence in teaching, research, outreach, and diversity as inextricably linked goals. The University of Wisconsin-Madison fulfills its public mission by creating a welcoming and inclusive community for people from every background - people who as students, faculty, and staff serve Wisconsin and the world.
To apply: Please submit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, teaching statement, diversity statement, writing sample, and the names and contact information for three references, by November 10, 2022, to receive full consideration. Applications received after that date will be considered as time permits. References will be contacted upon application submission and asked to provide a letter of reference. Please contact the search committee chair, Anthony Cerulli (acerulli at wisc.edu) with any questions.
