From vasishtha.spier at gmail.com  Fri Sep  2 22:28:14 2022
From: vasishtha.spier at gmail.com (Harry Spier)
Date: Fri, 2 Sep 2022 18:28:14 -0400
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Metric anomolies in the Vedas again.
Message-ID: <CAJ3b0o_Cmyjib7Sd35bFzgGBWEJimHmoKc9gT1PM-5OUNAZnDQ@mail.gmail.com>

Dear list members,
A long time ago (January 2015) there was a fascinating discussion about
metric anomolies  in the vedas.  The  Aitareya Br?hmana (na v?
eken?k?are?a chand??si
viyanti na dv?bhy?m)  and the  Rk-pr?ti??khya were mentioned in the
discussion but no-one mentioned Pi?gala .

But it seems  Pi?gala  wrote about this.  By chance while looking for
something else I came across Pingalacchandahsutra: A Study by Asoke
Chatterjee Sastri.  In case this is of interest to the participants in the
discussion and others, the link is
https://archive.org/download/dli.calcutta.11212/cu_pub596.pdf

Some selections from the book:

 Pages vii -viii

The Vedic metres at the same time do never lose its impress pattern on
excess or loss of one

or two syllables. This overstepping or shortness of due limits does not
stand in the way of their

fullfilment of the definition of the particular metre. The Aitereya
Br?hma?a claims that by one

letter or by two letters the metres are not disqualified (na v? ekena
ak?are?? chand??si viyanti

na dv?bhy?m), Where the number of the syllable is less, the euphonic
combination should be

disjoined and Pingala has rightly framed a rule in this regard
(Pi?gala?3-2).


pages 84-85

. . .In the second s?tra of this chapter [three] the author has prescribed
the rules regarding filling of foot, in g?yatri etc. where syllables fall
short of

the required number, there we fill the pada (foot) with iy, uv etc. As for
example ?tat savitur vare?yam? is cited by the v?ttik?ra.

Here as there are seven syllables only by the side of other two feet of
eight syllables each, one should fill the foot adding one more syllable,
i.e., iy.

Then the form will be 'tat savitur vare?iyam'. . .


page 92

If the characteristic features of the metres as shown by Pi?gala fail to
hold good to all the Vedic

metres, all these may be explained with the help of nic?t, bh?rik, vir??
etc. . . .


page 61

...

The metre here is tri??up. The first foot of the mantra consists of ten
syllables, second foot

of eleven syllables, third of nine syllables and fourth foot of ten
syllables. . . . scholars took

resort to and devised 'iy?dip?ra?a'. By this rule if we add one syllable in
the first foot, two in

the second foot and again one in the third foot then it will be tri??up
metre.


page 89

. . . There are two other kinds of metres named nic?t and bh?rik. Generally
g?yatr? consists of

twentyfour syllables. But when we find one syllable less, it is called
nic?t g?yatr? and when it


contains one syllable in excess it is known by the name bh?rik g?yatr?.
Other metres are also to

be divided thus. Similarly when two syllables less or more are detected in
a g?yatr?, they are vir?? g?yatr? and svar?? g?yatr? respectively.

 Other metres also follow the same principle. If there exists

 any doubt in the determination of metre, the first foot is regarded as the
deciding factor.


Harry Spier
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20220902/6caefd68/attachment.htm>

