From jpo at austin.utexas.edu  Fri Sep 30 13:58:11 2022
From: jpo at austin.utexas.edu (Olivelle, J P)
Date: Fri, 30 Sep 2022 13:58:11 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Rocher Foundation Publications
Message-ID: <36D2FE5F-888D-4B66-947A-E9B750A66F5F@austin.utexas.edu>

Dear Friends:

With the beginning of the academic year, I would like to bring to your attention once again the publications supported by the Ludo and Rosane Rocher Foundation.

The flagship publication is the Rocher Indology Series published by Oxford University Press. All the volumes in this series are Open Access, ensuring their widest circulation.

The Series consists of first-rate, cutting-edge research in areas relating to the study of India?s premodern past. The volumes in the series represent true advances in the field. The range of subjects includes textual studies, taking ?text? to mean not just literary productions, but also inscriptions, archives, and documents in any form, including art and artifacts. The scope of the Series includes archeology, and music, and embraces understudied areas such as mathematics, astronomy, medicine, food sciences, and the natural sciences. Besides monographs, the series welcomes critical editions and translation of premodern texts, as well as histories of the field of Indology and its practitioners. Through this Series, the Foundation wishes to foster broad assessments of the state of Indological knowledge and its prospects in the study of issues/periods/areas across multiple modes of documentation and perspectives. It is the intent of the Foundation that this series will help grow the field in depth, breadth and diversity.

The second is the ?First Books Series? for young scholars publishing their first book. The Foundation provides a subsidy of $ 5,000. Due to IRS regulations, the subsidy can be paid only to Presses based in the USA, even if the Presses may be foreign, like OUP and Cambridge. But non-US scholars are eligible.

Full descriptions of these two initiatives, as well as application forms, are found at the Foundation website: https://rocherfoundation.org


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20220930/5c23121c/attachment.htm>

