[INDOLOGY] The Toronto Newar Summer School, 2023
FYI, warmly, as always,
Christoph
The Robert H. N. Ho Family Foundation Centre for Buddhist Studies at the University of Toronto
The Toronto Newar Summer School
June 5-16, 2023
Mon-Fri, 10 am-12:00 pm, 1:00-3:00 pm, 4:00-6:00 pm EST, in person and online,
offers the opportunity to learn to speak the idiom encountered in the streets of Kathmandu, to access the vast medieval and early modern Buddhist and Hindu literature preserved in Classical Newar, and/or to delve into the writings of a thriving contemporary literary and academic Himalayan culture. Mentored by three teachers, participants will study modern conversational Newar in the mornings, as well as classical literary Newar and modern literary Newar in the afternoons. Participants may enroll in any one or in all three classes, depending on whether they want to focus on modern (spoken and written) or on literary (classical and modern) Newar. Students at all levels are welcome. Beginners will receive a first exposure to the language, while intermediate or advanced students will have the opportunity to strengthen their skills. Applicants will be able to discuss their linguistic competence and academic needs at the time of application. Groups will be formed and syllabi will be designed depending on the overall demand. Registration closes on March 31, 2023. Participation is free. Please direct your applications and all enquiries to Christoph Emmrich at christoph.emmrich at utoronto.ca.
Srilaxmi Shrestha, M.A., an acclaimed private teacher of Newar and Nepali in Leiden, the Netherlands, will be conducting the modern conversational Newar class.
The modern literary Newar class will be taught by Dr. Bal Gopal Shrestha, one of the leading Nepalese
anthropologists of Newar Buddhism, author of The Sacred Town of Sankhu (2012) and The Newars of Sikkim(2015).
UofT professor Dr. Christoph Emmrich, who teaches courses in Newar religion and literature, will be offering the classical Newar class.
Christoph Emmrich
University of Toronto
