[INDOLOGY] article search
 <BY5PR11MB4338907C4C4B6C004C14CCC5A12F9@BY5PR11MB4338.namprd11.prod.outlook.com>
 <CAJGj9eZZuR6+Fe2krHHgFJktyzQOZsjWmvv1_Q-Z1TyTChQW0g@mail.gmail.com>
 <CAJGj9ebyvUAFjRRQi6oYQTXQjnXaeZGNVtU_H=OxSrT59_pcBw@mail.gmail.com>
 <DM6PR11MB4346D7EAF6EFE380D24636ACA1309@DM6PR11MB4346.namprd11.prod.outlook.com>
Dear Mathew,
Since you brought the topic of Narayana guru, I thought you were trying to
understand the  textual , both documented oral texts and manuscripts that
might help in understanding the background that is behind the
existence/emergence of a Narayana Guru .
So I was pointing to two such references : 1. Oral texts that are
collected/documented and not yet documented. 2. Manuscripts that reflect
aspects like Hatha Yoga -Advata Vedanta interface (Advaita Vedantic Hatha
Yoga or Hatha Yogic Advaita however it can be labelled) etc.,
You seem to see the 'Bhakti movement' framework sufficient to handle the
issue. An aspect that did not receive sufficient attention is what can be
called as  'Yoga Movement', that has similarities and differences with
'Bhakti movement'. This movement has two main strands : 1.
Yoga-emphasizing, that has features strongly differing from Bhakti in
aspects such as opposing Murti-puja etc. 2. Yogaizing Bhakti , with
esoteric/mystic interpretations of Bhakti material.
Now that you mention your interest in S'astric writings towards this, let
me share that the concept of  'Shastric'  itself  needs a more nuanced
look. For example, Advaita Vedantic Hatha Yoga or Hatha Yogic Advaita texts
look at themselves as Shastric texts only.  Even these texts may not have
any social discussion. But it is these texts and their ideas that reflect
in a big way in the oral and rarely written texts of the Yoga movement
involving the scheduled castes among other non 'upper caste' social groups.
The other Advaita Vedanta texts of the same period may not take up this
question, as they focus on other core philosophical , non-social questions
of Vedanta.
What deserves attention is that these oral 'folk' lyrical and non lyrical
texts do have a significant portion devoted to this question of adhikaara
and the discussions therein view themselves as shastric only , use shastric
terms and logic.   There are legends within the lore of these 'Yoga
movement' communities, about how their leading Saadhaka, the parama guru of
their parampara, 'defeated ' a Shastric scholar or Shastric mathaadhipati
in a Shastric debate on topics that may include questions of adhikaara.
Their lyrical and non lyrical lore banks upon provisions such as antaryaaga
, inward practice interpretations of Yajna and other Karmas available in
Upanishads , relative greater significance of jnaana over karma found in
Vedanta  and so on and so forth, all from the Shaastra of Vedanta and its
most core texts Upanishads , Bhagavadgita etc., only. While the Hatha Yogic
Advaita Vedanta texts that seem to have influenced these thoughts are in
Sanskrit , all these lyrical and non lyrical 'folk' texts are in the
vernacular/ regional languages.
At another level, people like Swami Dayananda Sarawswati consider their
arguments in favour of adhikaara of all humanity including the scheduled
castes of India and all the people of the world for both the Vedic Karma
kaanda and Vedanta, view their arguments as Shastric only and they are in
Sanskrit only.
On Wed, Oct 26, 2022 at 5:57 PM Matthew Kapstein <mkapstei at uchicago.edu>
wrote:
