Jonas Buchholz studied Sanskrit and Tamil in Heidelberg and finished his studies with an M.A. degree in 2012. In April 2018, he defended his PhD thesis on classical Tamil literature at the University of Hamburg. From 2014 to 2019, he worked as a research associate in the ERC funded project ?Going from Hand to Hand: Networks of Intellectual Exchange in the Tamil Learned Traditions (NETamil)? at the University of Hamburg. He also taught as a visiting lecturer at the Universities of T?bingen and G?ttingen. Since September 2019, he conducts the DFG funded project ?Temple Networks in Early Modern South India? together with Prof. Dr. Ute H?sken at the University of Heidelberg. His research focuses on South India (Tamil Nadu). Special interests include Tamil and Sanskrit literatures and their mutual relationship, as well as manuscript studies.

Ute H?sken is Professor and Head of the Department of Cultural and Religious History of South Asia. She joined Heidelberg University coming from Oslo University, where she had been professor of South Asia Studies (Sanskrit) since 2007. Before that, she had been member and project leader in the collaborative research project ?dynamics of ritual? at Heidelberg University (SFB 619). Prof. H?sken?s main research fields are Buddhist studies, Hindu studies, Ritual and Festival studies and Gender studies. In most of her most recent work she combines methods of textual research (Sanskrit, Pali, Tamil) and anthropology.



On the  HASP-Platform<https://hasp.ub.uni-heidelberg.de/> the entire PDF of the book as well as the individual chapters can be downloaded for free. A hardcover edition of the book also has been published, which can be purchased via stationary bookshops and online booksellers.



--

Prof. Dr. Ute H?sken
Vice Dean, Faculty of Philosophy
Project Leader, ?Hindu Temple Legends in South India?, Heidelberger Akademie der Wissenschaften
Head of Department, Cultural and Religious History of South Asia (Classical Indology)
South Asia Institute
Heidelberg University
https://www.sai.uni-heidelberg.de/krs/

Vo?strasse 2
Building 4130, Room 130.02.15
69115 Heidelberg ? Germany


-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20221024/6c706e4c/attachment.htm>

