[INDOLOGY] New publication: Temples, Texts,
 and Networks: South Indian Perspectives
Dear list members,
I am happy to announce a new open access publication by Heidelberg Asian Studies Publishing (HASP):
Temples, Texts, and Networks: South Indian Perspectives<https://doi.org/10.11588/hasp.906>, ed. by Malini Ambach, Jonas Buchholz and Ute H?sken. Heidelberg: Heidelberg Asian Studies Publishing, 2022. ISBN 978-3-948791-22-3(HC), ISBN 978-3-948791-23-0, DOI: https://doi.org/10.11588/hasp.906
For many centuries, Hindu temples and shrines have been of great importance to South Indian religious, social and political life. Aside from being places of worship, they are also pilgrimage destinations, centres of learning, political hotspots, and foci of economic activities. In these tem?ples, not only the human and the divine interact, but they are also meeting places of different members of the communities, be they local or coming from afar. Hindu temples do not exist in isolation, but stand in multiple re?lationships to other temples and sacred sites. They relate to each other in terms of architecture, ritual, or mythology, or on a conceptual level when particular sites are grouped together. Especially in urban centres, multiple temples representing different religious traditions may coexist within a shared sacred space. The current volume pays close attention to the con?nections between individual Hindu temples and the affiliated communities, be it within a particular place or on a trans-local level. These connections are described as ?temple networks,? a concept which instead of stable hierarchies and structures looks at nodal, multi-centred, and fluid systems, in which the connections in numerous fields of interaction are understood as dynamic processes.
Malini Ambach joined the Department of Cultural and Religious History of South Asia as a doctoral candidate under the supervision of Prof. Dr. Ute H?sken in October 2019. Prior to that she obtained her BA in South Asia Studies as well as her MA in Cultural and Religious History of South Asia/South Asian Studies from Heidelberg University. Her doctoral project studies the multi-facetted sacred geography of the South Indian temple town Kanchipuram (Tamil Nadu) as presented in the place's glorifying texts in Sanskrit (m?h?tmya). It explores the structures, spatial orientations and means of inter- and trans-sectarian negotiation that shape the texts? design of the city in a broader perspective and on the level of individual sacred sites.
