From christophe.vielle at uclouvain.be  Wed Oct 19 09:36:37 2022
From: christophe.vielle at uclouvain.be (Christophe Vielle)
Date: Wed, 19 Oct 2022 09:36:37 +0000
Subject: [INDOLOGY] Assistant/Associate or Associate Professor with Tenure
 in Sanskrit and Premodern South Asian Culture at MESAAS-Columbia University
 NY
Message-ID: <7F044E90-B4F4-4802-A4DC-502B83B68032@uclouvain.be>

https://mesaas.columbia.edu/assistantassociate-or-associate-professor-with-tenure-in-sanskrit-and-premodern-south-asian-culture/

Open Date: Oct 04, 2022

Assistant or Associate Professor in Sanskrit and Premodern South Asian studies

The Department of Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies (MESAAS) at Columbia University seeks to hire an Assistant or Associate Professor in Sanskrit and Premodern South Asian studies. We will consider applications from new PhDs to recently tenured Associate Professors, whose humanistic work focuses on or connects with the late first millennium to the early modern periods. Applications from scholars working in a second South Asian language (expansively understood) are especially welcome. As a transregional and interdisciplinary department, MESAAS seeks applicants capable of bringing their work and interests into conversation with non-specialists both within the department and across the university. The successful candidate will be expected to sustain an active program of research, publication, undergraduate and graduate teaching and supervision, and service. MESAAS encourages applications from candidates whose research, teaching, and service to the field will contribute to the diversity of the department and the university.

The review of applications will begin November 1, 2022; the position will remain open until filled. On-campus interviews will take place early in the spring semester. The appointment will begin on July 1, 2023. The Ph.D. must be in hand by the appointment start date.

Qualifications

PhD in relevant fields.

Application Instructions

All applications must be made through Columbia University?s Academic Search and Recruiting (ASR) system. Please upload the following required materials:

? Cover letter explaining research and teaching interests

? Curriculum vitae

? One writing sample (of no more than 30 pages)

? Contact information for referees (who may be asked to upload letters to the ASR/Interfolio system at a later stage in the search process)

? List of courses taught or being developed, along with one sample syllabus

? Diversity statement (addressing past and/or potential contributions to diversity and inclusion through research, teaching, professional activity, and/or service)

Application Process
This institution is using Interfolio?s Faculty Search to conduct this search. Applicants to this position receive a free Dossier account and can send all application materials, including confidential letters of recommendation, free of charge.
Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity Employer / Disability / Veteran
-------------- next part --------------
An HTML attachment was scrubbed...
URL: <https://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology/attachments/20221019/d15bd4b8/attachment.htm>

