[INDOLOGY] Sanskrit Lecturer Position at UC Berkeley
Dear Colleagues,
I am happy to announce the opening of the position of Sanskrit Lecturer at
the University of California, Berkeley. The link to the advertisement can
be found here: https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03710.  Please circulate
this widely to any who might be interested.
Those who might have further questions can contact me at
luther_obrock at berkeley.edu
Sincerely,
Luther
POSITION OVERVIEWPosition title: Lecturer
Salary range: Starting at $64,329
Percent time: Part-time or Full-time; dependent on need.
Anticipated start: Fall 2023
Review timeline: Applicants are considered for positions as needs arise;
the existence of this pool does not guarantee that a position is available.
APPLICATION WINDOW
Open date: November 9, 2022
Next review date: Wednesday, Nov 23, 2022 at 11:59pm (Pacific Time)
Apply by this date to ensure full consideration by the committee.
Final date: Wednesday, Nov 8, 2023 at 11:59pm (Pacific Time)
Applications will continue to be accepted until this date, but those
received after the review date will only be considered if the position has
not yet been filled.
POSITION DESCRIPTION
The Department of South and Southeast Asian Studies at the University of
California, Berkeley, invites applications for the position of Lecturer in
Sanskrit. The successful applicant will teach introductory and intermediate
Sanskrit. The successful applicant will teach basic grammar as well as
reading courses in a variety of genres at the intermediate level.
Responsibilities include teaching, holding office hours, assigning grades,
preparing course materials, maintaining a course website and compiling
teaching materials and interacting with students via email, bCourses, and
Zoom conferencing software.
Department: https://sseas.berkeley.edu/
QUALIFICATIONS
Basic qualifications (required at time of application)
PhD (or equivalent international degree), or enrolled in a PhD or
equivalent international degree-granting program at the time of application.
Additional qualifications (required at time of start)
PhD (or international equivalent degree) by the start date.
Preferred qualifications
PhD (or international equivalent degree) in Sanskrit or related field by
the time of appointment.
Knowledge of Vedic Sanskrit, Prakrit, or another South Asian language
(ancient or modern) is preferred.
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
Document requirements
   -
   Curriculum Vitae - Your most recently updated C.V.
   -
   Cover Letter
   -
   Statement of Teaching
   -
   Statement on Contributions to Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
   - Statement on your contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion,
   including information about your understanding of these topics, your record
   of activities to date, and your specific plans and goals for advancing
   equity and inclusion if hired at Berkeley (for additional information go to
   <https://ofew.berkeley.edu/recruitment/contributions-diversity>
   https://ofew.berkeley.edu/recruitment/contributions-diversity).
   (Optional)
   -
   Sample syllabus
Reference requirements
   - 2-4 required (contact information only)
Apply link: https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03710
Help contact: fitzgerald at berkeley.edu
