[INDOLOGY] Hindu Philosophy sessions at the American Academy of
 Religion
[with apologies for cross-posting]
Dear Colleagues,
I'm pleased to announce that the Hindu Philosophy unit of the American Academy of Religion is sponsoring three sessions at the upcoming annual meeting (Nov. 19-22) in Denver, Colorado. Please see below for details.
Best wishes,
Michael S. Allen
Co-chair (with Parimal Patil), Hindu Philosophy Unit
Assistant Professor
Department of Religious Studies
University of Virginia
A19-313
Theme: Topics in Indian Philosophy: Perception, Logic, and Embodiment
Saturday, 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM
Hyatt Regency-Capitol 2 (Fourth Level)
Lynna Dhanani, University of California, Davis, Presiding
This session brings together three papers on diverse topics from across a millennium of Indian philosophy. The first paper discusses the relationship between philosophy of language and philosophy of perception in the works of Ma??ana Mi?ra (8th c.), focusing on his distinctive claim that error leads to truth. The second offers an analysis of ?r?har?a?s (12th c.) view of tarka (?suppositional reasoning?) and its relevance to theory choice, arguing that ?r?har?a should not be read as a skeptic. The third paper draws attention to the epics as sites for theological discourse, focusing on early modern (17th and 18th c.) Ved?ntic commentaries on the R?m?ya?a and Mah?bh?rata and their treatment of divine embodiment.
Eliot Davenport, University of Virginia
When Elephants Become Trees: Perception in the Brahmasiddhi and Spho?asiddhi of Ma??ana Mi?ra
Nilanjan Das, University of Toronto
?r?har?a on Tarka and Theory Choice
Vishal Sharma, University of Oxford
?As if Embodied?: Reading the Sanskrit Epics in the Age of Vedanta
A20-216
Theme: Kum?rila on the Intrinsic Validity of Cognitions: A Philosophical Roundtable
Sunday, 12:30 PM - 2:30 PM
Hyatt Regency-Granite C (Third Level)
Parimal G. Patil, Harvard University, Presiding
What makes a cognition valid, justified, or true? This roundtable will focus on one of the most important treatments of this question in classical Indian philosophy: Kum?rila?s argument for svata?-pr?m??ya, or the ?intrinsic validity? of cognitions, at ?loka-v?rttika II.33-61. Participants will explore and debate the merits of several different interpretations of Kum?rila?s argument by later M?m??sakas as well as by Ved?ntins. The goal of this format is to create a space for lively and rigorous discussion, rather than traditional paper presentations. A handout with the original Sanskrit and an English translation of selections from Kum?rila?s text will be provided.
Panelists
John Taber, University of New Mexico
Lawrence McCrea, Cornell University
Elisa Freschi, University of Toronto
Michael Allen, University of Virginia
Business Meeting
Michael Allen, University of Virginia, Presiding
Parimal G. Patil, Harvard University, Presiding
A21-416
Co-sponsored session: Hindu Philosophy Unit and Sikh Studies Unit
Theme: Roundtable on Arvind-Pal Singh Mandair's Sikh Philosophy: Exploring Gurmat Concepts in a Decolonizing World (Bloomsbury, 2022)
Monday, 5:00 PM - 6:30 PM
Convention Center-301 (Street Level)
Puninder Singh, University of Michigan, Presiding
Sikh philosophy has typically, when it has been discussed at all, been subsumed within the ambit of area studies or religious studies. More particularly it has usually only been discussed in the context of other religions/philosophies of South Asia, especially the Vedic/Hindu or the Sufi. This roundtable aims to bring together a group of scholars to discuss a new book on Sikh Philosophy that addresses this lacuna by going beyond its usual confines of area studies or solely religious studies paradigms. Arvind-Pal Singh Mandair?s Sikh Philosophy: Exploring gurmat Concepts in a Decolonizing World (Bloomsbury, 2022) aims to bring Sikh philosophy into engagement with a wider sphere, that of global philosophies. Sensitive to both the historical formation of Sikh thought, and to the decolonial context, the book examines some of the key concepts of Sikh philosophy and how they inform its vision of life.
Panelists
Jeffery D. Long, Elizabethtown College
Ananda Abeysekara, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Monika Kirloskar-Steinbach, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam
Rita Dhamoon, University of Victoria
Responding
Arvind Mandair, University of Michigan
