[INDOLOGY] paratva
 <CAK-86hsV3r6gD5hSGDo456hMODkPSsk_d9xgTiaYVcL0HS-ndw@mail.gmail.com>
Dear Rishi Rajpopat,
Thank you for the reply.
I don't have Joshi's translation of the k?rak?hnika. I would be thankful if someone would provide me with a scan of the two relevant pages. 
I looked at your note 75. You mention only the example geha? pravi?ati/ *gehe pravi?ati which is problematic. At the moment, I have only the Mah?bh??ya with the Prad?pa and Uddyota. With N?ge?a's comments on the bh?sya (v?rttika 33), I think the argument of bh??ya is clear and valid. According to N?ge?a, the form 'gehe pravi?ati' is incorrect. Only 'geha? pravi?ati' is correct ["gehe pravi?ati gr?me ?gata ity ?di tv as?dhveveti bodhyam"] - Although I see that in Monier Williams dictionary, the object of this verb can be in the accusative or locative. The conflict occurs because the house concerning the activity of 'pra vi?' is both the desired object (A.1.4.49: kartur ?psitatama? karma) and the location (A.1.4.45: ?dh?ro' dhikara?am) [geha? pravi?at?ty ?dau geh?dhikara?ako gehakarmako vy?p?ra iti bodha?]. According to K?ty?yana, Pata?jali and N?ge?a, it is desired that the object 'geha' be karma, thus with an accusative ending. By A 1.4.1 and A 1.4.2, only A.1.4.49 applies because it is mentioned later. So, the speaker's wishes, whether he/she wants to express kartur ?psitatama or ?dh?ra, are irrelevant in respect to this example.
Yours,
Sharon
On Monday, December 19, 2022 at 12:14:11 AM GMT, Rishi Rajpopat via INDOLOGY <indology at list.indology.info> wrote: 
Dear Yuto
It's so good to hear from you!
And thanks for your interest.
Firstly, contrary to your statement, I do actually discuss the issue you have raised about the karakas. Please see footnote 75 on pg 31 of my thesis. Contrary to what the tradition says (see joshis essay mentioned below for details) there is no conflict at all between the rules you mention. The two labels are never simultaneously applicable and the choice between the two karakas in question lies entirely with the speaker, as I say in my thesis too in the aforementioned footnote. (SD Joshi has written a beautiful piece on this: see pages x and xi of the introduction to his translation of the karakahnika of the MBH)
And no, it has to be param because it has to agree with karyam ("rhs operation"). So nominative.
Enjoy your holidays! ?
Best
Rishi
On Sun, 18 Dec, 2022, 7:01 PM ????, <ykawamura0619 at gmail.com> wrote:
INDOLOGY mailing list
INDOLOGY at list.indology.info
https://list.indology.info/mailman/listinfo/indology
