[INDOLOGY] Best wishes for a Peaceful Christmas and New Year...
Dear Jan,
while not belonging to Sanskrit literature, it seems worth mentioning an extensive passage in the Old Javanese R?m?ya?a, sargas 24 and 25. The former sarga describes the idyll in La?k? after Vibh??a?a had succeeded R?va?a, where both nature and human society are dominated by harmony (and yet, various animals allegorically representing ascetics take the opportunity to tease one another about their respective behaviours and religious observances). The latter describes sage Bharadva?ja?s hermitage and the banks of the river Sarayu?, populated by all kinds of birds and plants. 
See e.g. 24.107:
The animals shared harmony together and a mind dominated by purity; not much time after, the people [too] became bright [in their minds].
The lions, all of them, were suddenly lovable; like relatives, like brothers, were the barking deer, feeling secure. 
That is why the paramount effort of Him who protects the world was effective: 
it is not difficult to achieve for the mind that has love as its rudder in the boat of compassion.
And 24.125:
Thus the animals were very faithful, staying together and licking [one another] as if they were taking an oath.
Wild dogs, tigers, bears, every wild animal had a gentle character at last.
That which flows out from the heart of the ruler of the world causes every animal that [formerly] fought each other to be companions.
How much more the people of the palace: with a firm heart they were fervently devoted to him.
The motif of ferocious animals becoming tame and living peacefully together with their habitual preys is widespread in Sanskrit literature. The reason for such gentle behaviour of animals in hermitages is due to the soothing and beneficial influence of the holy sages dwelling there. See e.g. the  Candrehe stone inscription of Prabodhas?iva (724 AD) which describes a hermitage inhabited by holy ascetics in the following manner: 
?In this place herds of monkeys kiss the cubs of lions, [and] the young one of a deer sucks at the breast of the lioness. Other hostile animals forget their [natural] antipathy [to one another]; for the minds of all become tranquil in penance-groves? (v. 15, translation Banerji 1930-31).
See also AVa?lmi?ki?s Ra?ma?ya?a, Ayodhya?ka???a 88.7, describing the Citraku??a mountain inhabited by holy ascetics:
n?n?m?gaga?adv?pitarak?v?k?aga?air v?ta? /
adu??air bh?ty aya? ?ailo bahupak?isam?kula? 
 ?What a sight the mountain makes, swarming with birds and teeming with herds of beasts, panthers, hyenas, and monkeys, all of them tame? (transl. Pollock 1986:269). 
Other instances of this topos in the Maha?bha?rata and in Ka?lida?sa?s works are discussed in Pontillo 2009.
All the above references are mentioned in a 2010 article by myself, freely accessible at https://doi.org/10.1163/22134379-90003611
Best,
Andrea Acri
